url: https://www.unmannedairspace.info/counter-uas-systems-and-policies/airshare-launches-drone-inception-missile-system/











AirShare "launches drone inception missile system" - Unmanned airspace





























































Skip to content








Unmanned airspace
The information portal for unmanned air system traffic management (UTM) and counter-UAS (C-UAS) systems





Search for:




Search









The information portal for unmanned air system traffic management (UTM), urban air mobility (UAM) and counter-UAS (C-UAS) systems




About
Market Intelligence

The market for UAV Traffic Management Services – 2019-2023
Customised, expert consultancy services


UTM directory
Counter-UAS directory
Our audience
Sponsor / advertise
Contact










AirShare “launches drone inception missile system”
March 4, 2018 Philip Butterworth-Hayes Counter-UAS systems and policies


Armyrecognition.com reports that Canada’s AirShare launched its OVERWATCH™ Interceptor-UX, a new solution to counter UAV using a surface-to-air missile able to create high-persistence countermeasure cloud, at the recent UMEX 2018 exhibition in Abu Dhabi,
“The Interceptor-UX is based on five patent-pending technologies which enable detection, tracking, and kinetic mitigation of small UAVs using a high-persistence countermeasure cloud. The proprietary countermeasure cloud improves the ability to defeat incoming small UAV threats under all conditions by disabling their propulsion system. AirShare provides an end-to-end system to safely and effectively stop small drones from encroaching on protected airspace and personnel,” according to material published by Armyrecognition.com. “The OVERWATCH™ Interceptor-UX includes four main components, the Interceptor-UX missile that create the countermeasure cloud, uFDR detectors used to detect the UAV threats, the remote monitoring terminal which is used to identify the drone threat and the base station used to launch the missile.”
“The OVERWATCH™ system is safe to operate in urban environments, enables greater range, has no collateral damage, is effective against evasive maneuvers and swarms, provides simplified logistics, and is lower cost than conventional kinetic or electronic warfare approaches….system detects, tracks and mitigates an incoming threat within seconds using a rapid kinetic response. The world’s lightest guided missile, weighing ~700 grams and constructed from lightweight materials, does not cause collateral damage even if misused. The system stops wayward or malicious drones up to 2 kilometers away and brings them decisively to the ground by deploying a cloud of environmentally friendly elastic countermeasures which become ensnared in the drone’s propellers. For urban and airport applications, a custom parachute ensures the captured drone descends safely.”
“The OVERWATCH™ Interceptor-UX missile can be mounted on vehicle or vessel but it can be also used by individual soldier. It can offer a protection sphere from 1,000 to 4,000 m. The system can be integrated into existing Battlefield Management Systems or used in standalone. The technology has been selected by the Government of Canada and is now being offered to select military, law enforcement, and public safety clients. The company leverages domain expertise in detection, tracking and mitigation to provide a lightweight, autonomous system which requires little to no operator intervention.”
Share this:



Post navigation
Previous Post:“5kW anti-drone laser in service with US troops in Europe” – US Army TimesNext Post:NATS and Altitude Angel announce strategic partnership








MARKET INTELLIGENCE 
The market for UAV Traffic Management Services – 2019-2023.
Our unique 240 page guide to market drivers and opportunities within the global UTM sector Click here for more information
 

CATEGORIES Civil/military integration

Commentary

Counter UAS systems tenders

Counter-UAS systems and policies

Jobs and appointments

UAS traffic management news

UAS traffic management tenders

Urban air mobility

UTM and C-UAS market analysis

UTM industry-leader interview

UTM CALENDAR OF EVENTS – 2019 May
29 May – 3 June AUVSI Xponential, McCormick Place, Chicago, USA
Find out more

June
18 – 20 June GUTMA Annual Conference. Portland, Oregon, USA
Find out more

October
28 – 30 October Commercial UAV Expo Americas, Las Vegas, USA
Find out more

December
2 – 6 December Amsterdam Drone Week, RAI, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Find out more

ADVERTISERS AND SPONSORS


SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER Our Unmanned Airspace weekly news digest provides a round-up of the key stories from the worlds of UAS traffic management, counter-UAS and urban air mobility. To join the mailing list subscribe here





* indicates required
Email Address *


First Name *


Last Name *


Job Title 

Organisation 














ADVERTISERS AND SPONSORS FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
Tweets by @unmanndairspace








		Powered by WordPress and Gambit.	