url: https://www.popularmechanics.com/military/research/a22677285/darpa-drones-recharged-laser-silent-falcon/



Drones Recharged by a Laser Could Fly Forever





































































 Search


Follow

Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Pinterest
Youtube


Get Our Newsletter
Home and DIY
Power Tools
Cars, Trucks, & Motorcycles
Technology
Military
Gear & Gadget Reviews
Science
Sci-Fi
Airplanes
Space
Subscribe

Subscribe
Print Edition
Digital Edition
Give a Gift


Podcasts
Promotions
Win
Privacy Notice
Terms of Use













PM_Logo

























Technology
Cars
Tools
Defense
Camping Guide
Subscribe

Give a Gift
Digital Editions


Newsletter






















Type keyword(s) to search














				Today's Top Stories
			


			1
		

Explore Mars in VR with This Rover Simulator








			2
		

USAF Plans to 'Grow' Runways With Bacteria








			3
		

Miller Lite Made a Beer Can Controller








			4
		

Pangea Gave Us Modern Oceans








			5
		

The Best Patagonia Bags Are On Sale Now










Drones Recharged by a Laser Could Fly Forever
DARPA chooses the Silent Falcon as its drone of choice for the laser recharging experiment.







By
					Kyle Mizokami




											Aug 8, 2018
					










Silent Falcon 










DARPA has chosen a drone for its strange-sounding concept: charging aircraft in midair with laser beams. The concept could lead to unmanned planes that stay aloft indefinitely.The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's laser-powered flying drone works like this: The aircraft has solar panels in the wings, particularly the dorsal wing, and batteries in the fuselage. The batteries provide the initial source of power, but as they drain down, the drone operators aim a laser beam at the solar panels. Regular shots of laser power can recharge the aircraft to the point where it can stay aloft indefinitely.





DARPA’s program is called the Stand-off Ubiquitous Power/Energy Replenishment - Power Beaming Demo (SUPER PBD). The agency has now picked Silent Falcon’s eponymous drone for testing. DARPA will try out the concept by flying the Silent Falcon and shooting a laser down at it from a mountainside.The ability to recharge a drone with lasers does face some hurdles. For one, lasers lose strength the farther they travel and can be obscured or even blocked by smoke, haze, fog, and rain. DARPA figures it can recharge the drone at up to 6.8 miles, but that maximum will vary under real-world conditions. The team acknowledges there are safety issues with shooting a laser up into the air, which is why, for the test, they’re placing the laser on a hill and pointing downward (though they didn't say whether a drone-recharging laser could start a wildfire during the recharging process).Nevertheless, if DARPA and Silent Falcon can prove this concept works, they could open the door to even longer-0range drones operating in both the commercial and military sectors. Drones could fly for weeks fulfilling a contract or mission, not landing until the job is done. 




Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

























More From
Research








USAF Plans to 'Grow' Runways With Bacteria






Russia’s First Strike Drone Will Fly This Summer



Advertisement - Continue Reading Below







DARPA Wants To Make Thought-Controlled Machines







U.S. Fighter Jets Could Soon Be Armed With Lasers







Chinese Hypersonic Vehicle Could Be Future Missile






A Former Green Beret Rethinks the Tourniquet








Can the Air Force Learn To Love Startup Culture?






The Army Wants to Block Troops’ Heat Signatures







Military Journal Claims Russian Troops Are Psychic







This Bonkers Promo Could Be the Future of Warfare










Research


Military


This Drone Could Fly Forever With Wireless Power


Say Hello to the Laser Drone of the Future


UAVs Could Use Power Lines to Recharge


Drones that Dock with Drones Could Stay In Flight Forever


This ATV Shoots Down Drones With Lasers


Boeing's Blimp Drones Could Fly Forever

















PM_Logo



















































Newsletter
Digital Editions
About Us
Media Kit
Press Room
Contact Us
Community Guidelines
Advertise Online
Customer Service
Subscribe
Other Hearst Subscriptions
Give a Gift
Events & Promotions
Giveaways
Being Green
BestProducts

A Part of Hearst Digital Media

				Popular Mechanics participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.
			

©2019 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Notice
Your California Privacy Rights
Interest-Based Ads
Terms of Use
Site Map