






    






 













































(PDF) Drone with Thermal Infrared Camera Provides high resolution georeferenced imagery of the Waikite Geothermal Area, New Zealand


We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got itWe value your privacyWe use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.Accept CookiestopSee all ›27 CitationsSee all ›30 ReferencesSee all ›7 FiguresDownload citationShare  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn RedditDownload full-text PDFDrone with Thermal Infrared Camera Provides high resolution georeferenced imagery of the Waikite Geothermal Area, New ZealandArticle (PDF Available) in Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research 325:61-69 · June 2016 with 1,129 ReadsDOI: 10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2016.06.014  Cite this publication Mark Charles Harvey12.11University of Connecticut J. Rowland33.83University of Auckland Katherine Mary Luketina6.32Waikato Regional Council, Hamilton, New ZealandAbstractDrones are now routinely used for collecting aerial imagery and creating digital elevation models (DEM). Lightweight thermal sensors provide another payload option for generation of very high resolution aerial thermal orthophotos. This technology allows for the rapid and safe survey of thermal areas, often present in inaccessible or dangerous terrain. Here we present a 2.2 km2 georeferenced, temperature-calibrated thermal orthophoto of the Waikite geothermal area, New Zealand. The image represents a mosaic of nearly 6000 thermal images captured by drone over a period of about 2 weeks. This is thought by the authors to be the first such image published of a significant geothermal area ever produced by a drone equipped with a thermal camera. Temperature calibration of the image allowed calculation of heat loss (36 MW) from thermal lakes and streams in the survey area (loss from evaporation, conduction and radiation). An RGB (visible spectrum) orthomosaic photo and digital elevation model was also produced for these areas, with ground resolution and horizontal position error comparable to commercially produced LiDAR and aerial imagery obtained from manned aircraft. Our results show that thermal imagery collected by drones has the potential to become a key tool in geothermal science, including geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys, environmental baseline and monitoring studies, geotechnical studies and civil works.Discover the world's research15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for free Figures - uploaded by Mark Charles HarveyAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Mark Charles HarveyContent may be subject to copyright. DJI Phantom 2 Vision Plus quadcopter modified with ICI thermal camera and UAV module…  …  Hourly meteorological observations recorded Rotorua EWS weather station during…  +3Waikite heat flux (MW)… Content uploaded by Mark Charles HarveyAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Mark Charles Harvey on Oct 17, 2017 Content may be subject to copyright.Download full-text PDF 





1   Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research  Drone with Thermal Infrared Camera Provides high resolution georeferenced imagery of the Waikite Geothermal Area, New Zealand   M.C. Harvey1, J.V. Rowland1 and K.M. Luketina2   1School of Environment, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand, 2 Waikato Regional Council, Private Bag 3038, Waikato Mail Centre, Hamilton 3240, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2016.06.014   April 5, 2016 Index terms:  thermal, infrared, geothermal, exploration, camera, drone, uav, rpas, New, Zealand, monitoring, photogrammetry, structure, motion, heat, flow, flux. Corresponding author:  mhar098@aucklanduni.ac.nz  (+64) 21 1045 333




2  Key Points · Drone captured a 2.2 km2 georeferenced, temperature-calibrated thermal infrared radiation (TIR) orthophoto of the Waikite geothermal area.   · Calibrated thermal imagery provides an estimate of a total heat loss of 36 MW for thermal lakes and streams in the survey area (evaporation, conduction and radiation).   · A 3km2 aerial photo and digital elevation model (DEM) were produced for the Waikite geothermal area · This study demonstrates the efficacy of drones for producing accurate thermal maps of large, inaccessible geothermal areas   Abstract  Drones are now routinely used for collecting aerial imagery and creating digital elevation models (DEM).   Lightweight thermal sensors provide another payload option for generation of very high resolution aerial thermal orthophotos.  This technology allows for the rapid and safe survey of thermal areas, often present in inaccessible or dangerous terrain.   Here we present a 2.2 km2 georeferenced, temperature-calibrated thermal orthophoto of the Waikite geothermal area, New Zealand.   The image represents a mosaic of nearly 6000 thermal images captured by drone over a period of about 2 weeks.  This is thought by the authors to be the first such image published of a significant geothermal area ever produced by a drone equipped with a thermal camera.  Temperature calibration of the image allowed calculation of heat loss (36 MW) from thermal lakes and streams in the survey area (loss from evaporation, conduction and radiation).  An RGB 



3  (visible spectrum) orthomosaic photo and digital elevation model was also produced for these areas, with ground resolution and horizontal position error comparable to commercially produced LiDAR and aerial imagery obtained from manned aircraft.   Our results show that thermal imagery collected by drones has the potential to become a key tool in geothermal science, including geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys, environmental baseline and monitoring studies, geotechnical studies and civil works.  1 Introduction Photogrammetry is a technology that allows the reconstruction of three dimensional information (i.e. Digital Elevation Models) from a mosaic of overlapping, two dimensional photographs (Westoby et al., 2012). Although photogrammetry is not a new technology, recent advances in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV or drones) equipped with global positioning systems (GPS) and digital cameras have reduced the cost of collecting imagery.  Modern desktop and cloud computing power allows for routine post processing of large numbers of individual image photos.  The individual photos are combined into aerial orthophotos and Digital Elevation Models (DEM) of comparable quality (<0.1m) to airborne LiDAR (Harwin & Lucieer, 2012; Fonstad et al., 2013).   In volcanology, UAV have been used previously as a sensor platform for data collection in volcanic plumes (McGonigle et al., 2008).  Lightweight thermal sensors provide another payload option for generation of very high resolution aerial thermal orthophotos.  This technology promises to allow the rapid and safe survey of thermal areas, often present in inaccessible or dangerous terrain.   



4   In this study we provide results from a thermal infrared and Red Green Blue (RGB) survey of the Waikite Valley thermal area, New Zealand.  The survey was undertaken using a UAV equipped with a point and shoot digital camera for standard visible images (RGB), and a thermal infrared camera. The Waikite survey area is administered by the New Zealand Department of Conservation (DOC) and comprises a topographically steep and partly inaccessible valley of regenerating native wetland vegetation within the Waikite geothermal area.  Thermal features are associated with the active Paeroa Fault (Berryman et al., 2008) and include high flow-rate boiling springs in the south, warm lakes in the north, hot seeps and steaming ground (Glover et al., 1992).  Thermal wetlands in the Waikite Valley have been the focus of recent environmental restoration efforts (Reeves et al., 2011).  Advective heat loss from the Waikite Valley was previously estimated (43 MW, Glover et al., 1992)(46MW; Healy, 1952) based on flow from the Otamakokore thermal stream flow, which comprises nearly all surface out-flow from the survey area.  The Waikite geothermal area was previously imaged with a thermal camera carried by crewed helicopter (Bromley, 1992).  The purpose of this study was to assess the usefulness of drone technology for finding warm springs or other thermal features in difficult terrain such as wetlands and dense scrub, and to provide an estimate of surface heat loss from thermal water in the survey area.    



5  2 Methods 2.1 Field Methods Imagery was collected using a modified DJI Phantom 2 Vision+ quadcopter (Figure 1).  The quadcopter was modified by the replacement of the stock camera with an ICI 640x480 uncooled thermal sensor (spectral response 7-14µm) with automated image capture (ICI UAV module®). A Canon S100 point and shoot camera was fitted for normal visible (RGB) and DEM outputs (Harvey et al., 2014).   Figure 1  DJI Phantom 2 Vision Plus quadcopter modified with ICI thermal camera and UAV module  An appropriate flight plan was determined using UgCS® software running on a Hewlett Packard laptop running Windows 7®.  The flight plan was then uploaded to the quadcopter’s flight controller via a Samsung S4 smartphone running Android and the UgCS® mobile companion App.  Accordingly, both in-flight navigation and image capture were autonomous.   



6  Calibration of the thermal imagery was by direct measurement of water on the ground using a type-K thermocouple temperature probe; measurement of hot pools and nearby cold pools (farm troughs) was made immediately after each mornings flying, which allowed raw pixel response values from the thermal camera to be calibrated for a range of ambient conditions.  Measurement of hot and cold pools occurred before pools were exposed to direct sunlight; pools are located in a steep valley that is shaded from the sun until late morning.  This minimized temperature changes in the pools between the time of TIR image capture and ground measurement.  Ground control points (GCP) were established prior to flight so the resulting imagery could be accurately georeferenced.  GCP included 19 reflective plastic sheets (1.5 x 2m) placed at the perimeter of the planned survey area (Figure 6).   The location of the sheets (centre of the sheet) was recorded using Leica RTK GPS equipment with accuracy of 2-3cm.    2.2 Image Processing and Analysis Two-dimensional Thermal and RGB images were converted to 3-dimensional point clouds using Agisoft Photoscan® commercial photogrammetry software, running on a Hewlett Packard laptop computer equipped with an i7 processor and 32GB RAM.  Processing provided georeferenced, thermal and RGB raster orthophotos, and a DEM (Table 1).    Raster imagery was analysed and post-processed using QGIS open-source desktop geographic information system (GIS).  Post processing steps included conversion of the raw pixel values to calibrated temperature values (°C), and then to heat flux values (W m-2), as described below.  



7  2.3 Estimation of Heat Loss Areas of surface thermal water (lakes, streams) were selected from temperature calibrated raster images.   For this purpose, the QGIS Raster Calculator tool was used to select pixels above the ambient temperature (8-16°C).  Mean heat loss (W m-2) from these areas was estimated using deterministic heat flow equations (2.3.1-2.3.3)(Dawson, 1964; Dawson and Dickinson, 1970; Sorey and Colvard, 1994; Fridriksson et al., 2006) within a stochastic Monte Carlo simulation (Robert and Casella, 2013) developed in Microsoft Excel (2.3.4); randomly generated climatic data provided ambient conditions required by the equations (ambient air temperature, wind speed, humidity, air pressure).    Heat loss from the water’s surface has several components including loss from (1) evaporation, (2) conduction through air (3) radiation and (4) ebullition (boiling).  For vigorously boiling pools, a significant proportion may be due to steam passing through the water, but ebullition cannot be quantified from aerial thermal imagery and this fraction of heat loss was not considered.   However, nearly all water in the survey area was < 80°C, so this fraction is likely to be relatively minor.  In the following equations, water temperature is derived from TIR raster imagery (calibrated pixel values), and ambient conditions are averages for the survey period (wind speed 3m s-1, atmospheric pressure 1.015 bar, air temperature 12°C, and humidity 70%).  2.3.1 Evaporative Heat Loss from Streams and Lakes  



8  The heat loss from pools by evaporation is obtained by the following equations from Fridriksson et al. (2006): He = A ( hV - hL) (0.0065 + 0.0029w) x ( PH2O TP - PH2O ATM ) / PTOT where: A (m2) =     surface area of pool hV (J/kg)   =   steam enthalpy at pool temperature hL (J/kg)  =   liquid water enthalpy at pool temperature  w (m/s)  =   wind speed (m/s) PH2O TP (bar)  =  H2O vapour pressure of water at pool temperature  PH2O ATM (bar)  =  H2O vapour pressure at local atmospheric temperature and humidity  PTOT (bar)  =  atmospheric pressure   2.3.2 Conductive Heat Loss Conductive heat loss is obtained as a ratio with respect to evaporative heat loss (Fridriksson et al., 2006): RB (Bowen Ratio) = Hc/He = 6.1 x 10-4 PTOT (tP - tATM ) / (PH2O TP - PH2O ATM) where: TP (deg K)  =  pool temperature  TATM (deg K)  =  local atmospheric temperature  PH2O TP (bar)  =  H2O vapour pressure of water at pool temperature  PH2O ATM (bar)  =  H2O vapour pressure at local atmospheric temperature and humidity  PTOT (bar)  =  atmospheric pressure   



9  2.3.3 Heat Loss by Radiation The radiation heat loss is obtained using the Stefan-Boltzmann law (Dawson, 1964) Hr = Aεs.d. (T4P - T4ATM) where: A  =  pool area (m2) ε  =  Stefan-Boltzmann constant (0.955) s.d.   =  constant (5.68x10-08 J/s m2) TP  =  pool temperature (deg K) TATM  =  air temperature (deg K)  2.3.4 Monte Carlo Simulation Random climate data was generated within Excel by modelling histograms of hourly climatic observations recorded at a fixed meteorological station (Rotorua EWS weather station) (Figure 2).  The station is located ~18 km from the survey area, at a similar elevation (290m ASL station, versus 350-460m for the survey area)(NIWA, 2015).  Temperature and wind speed averages and extremes from the weather station agree with field observations providing confidence that station data represents the range of local conditions.   The simulation was repeated for a range of calibrated pixel temperatures (16-100°C), providing mean and standard deviation (s.d.)(W pixel-1) heat flow for the range of pixel temperatures.   An equation was fitted to each relationship (pixel temp versus heat flow), and these equations were used within the QGIS Raster Calculator tool to provide a sum of heat flow for the selected pixels.  



10  The work flow described above was implemented as follows: 1. Obtain histograms for local climatic variables from meteorological station (Figure 2). 2. Calculate heat flow (W pixel-1) using equations (2.3.1-2.3.3) for a randomly generated set of ambient conditions, for a range of pixel temperature (16-100°C, 4°C increments). 3. Simulation: repeat step 2 multiple times (number of realisations). 4. Record statistics from simulation results (heat flow: mean and s.d.) for each component (evaporation, conduction, radiation, total), for each temperature increment. 5. Plot pixel temperature versus mean ± s.d. for each increment, and fit equations (Figure 3). 6. Input equations to QGIS Raster Calculator tool to obtain total heat flow for selected pixels, for each component (mean ± s.d.)(Table 2). 7. Repeat steps 2 – 6 multiple times to determine if simulation results (mean) are stable.  If not, then increase number of realisations (step 3) and repeat steps 3-7 (Figure 4).  



11   Figure 2.  Hourly meteorological observations recorded Rotorua EWS weather station during the survey period 14th October and 2nd November 2015, between 6 and 10am (time of flights).     024681012141656789101112131415161718MoreFrequencyTemperature (°C)Mean Air Temperature Rotorua EWS 02468101200.511.522.533.544.555.566.577.58MoreFrequencyWind Speed (m s-1)Mean Surface Wind Speed Rotorua EWS 0123456789FrequencyHumidity (%)Mean Humidity Rotorua EWS0246810121416FrequencyAir Pressure (mBar)Mean Barometric Pressure Rotorua EWS



12   Figure 3.  Monte Carlo simulation results (2 x 104 realisations) for surface heat loss due to evaporation, conduction and radiation.   Pixel temperature versus heat flux (mean ± s.d.) at 4°C increments.  Pixel size 0.04m2.    y = 0.00001347x4- 0.00078340x3+ 0.08803714x2- 0.12449419x - 1.39433332R² = 0.99999849y = 0.00001738x4- 0.00107357x3+ 0.11937480x2- 0.55360279x + 4.62639964R² = 0.99999866y = 0.00000956x4- 0.00049322x3+ 0.05669948x2+ 0.30461442x - 7.41506628R² = 0.9999981702004006008001000120014001600180020000 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100Heat Flow (W/Pixel)Calibrated Pixel Temperature (°C)Mean:+ 1 s.d: - 1 s.d:



13   Figure 4.  Mean heat flow for Waikite South estimated from Monte Carlo simulations and QGIS Raster Calculator tool.  Note: Simulation heat flow stabilises at 39.3 MW as the number of realisations per simulation increases.  Heat flow is for evaporation, conduction and radiation components.    3 Results For thermal imagery, 17 flights were made between 14th October and 2nd November 2015.  Flight conditions were clear and cool (8-16°C) in the early morning (between 6 and 10am), with a maximum wind speed of ~6 m/s.   The total flight time was about 200 min, providing 5882 thermal images.  Computer post-processing of imagery took about 48 hours, providing a thermal orthophoto with a total coverage of ~2.2 km2 and ground resolution of 19 cm (Figure 5)(Table 1).  37.037.538.038.539.039.540.040.541.041.50 5 10 15 20Heat Flow (MW)Simulation#200 2,000 20,000 200,000Realisations per Simulation



14  Manual cross checking alignment of the thermal orthophoto with the visible orthophoto indicates positional root mean squared error (RMSE) of 1.0 m for the thermal image (average offset from the visible orthophoto based on 25 evenly distributed check points).  Thermal features are clearly identifiable in the thermal orthophoto.  Thermal imagery was calibrated by ground truthing; hot and cold pools of water were measured with a temperature probe just after flying.  This has allowed the generation of calibrated and georeferenced thermal imagery that can be investigated in detail and analysed with standard GIS software (ArcGIS, QGIS, etc.).  Calibration showed a linear relationship between pixel value and measured temperatures (Figure 10).  Increased scatter was observed at higher temperatures (>80°C) that may be due to screening by steam.  However, the correlation in the cross plot is good (r2 = 0.98), with a standard error of the regression of ± 2.3°C under 80°C (>99.9% of thermal water surface area in the survey area is <80°C).  The regression equation allowed temperature to be estimated for each pixel (Figure 5).    Lake Puakohurea is expanded in Figure 8 - Figure 9  to illustrate the quality of the thermal imagery, and thermal calibration of pixels (see Figure 10).   Figure 8 indicates Lake Puakohurea is warmest (43ºC) where hot springs enter the eastern side, then cools towards the western outflow.  Springs at the eastern side were measured previously (47.5 ºC; Glover et al., 1992).   illustrates the selection of pixels above ambient temperature using the QGIS Raster Calculator tool (2.3), and application of heat flow equations (2.3.1-2.3.3) to these pixels.    



15  Calibrated thermal imagery and Monte Carlo analysis provided heat loss (39.3 ± 10.5 MW) for thermal lakes and streams in the southern half of the survey area (including and south of Lake Puakohurea).  Lakes and streams in the northern half of the survey area provided a minor component (3.7 ± 1.4 MW) of the total heat loss (43.0 ± 11.9  MW)(Table 2).  Table 1 Image processing output Description Ground Resolution (m) RMS Error (m) Area (km2) Computer Processing Time (hours) Temperature calibrated thermal orthophoto 0.19 ~1 (x), ~1 (y) 2.2 48 Georeferenced RGB orthophoto  0.04 0.11 (x), 0.07(y) 3.0 70 Georeferenced DEM 0.17 0.11 (x), 0.07(y), 0.24 3.0 -  Table 2 Waikite heat flux (MW) Area Evap.   Cond.   Rad.  Total   meana s.d.b mean s.d. mean s.d. mean s.d. South Waikite 28.7 8.0 8.3 2.4 2.3 0.2 39.3 10.5 North Waikite 2.6 0.9 0.9 0.4 0.2 0.1 3.7 1.4 Total              43.0  11.9 aAverage heat flow from on Monte Carlo analysis (2 x 105 realisations) bStandard deviation of heat flow based on Monte Carlo analysis (2 x 105 realisations)  For the visible imagery and the DEM, 8 flights were made between the 7th and 10th October 2015.  Flight conditions were clear and sunny, with maximum wind speed of ~8 m/s.  The total flight time was about 120 minutes, providing 2035 images.  Computer post-processing of imagery took about 72 hours, providing 33 orthophoto tiles and DEM with a total coverage of ~3 km2, and orthophoto ground resolution of 4 cm (Figure 6 - Figure 7, Figure 9) (Table 1).  Close inspection of the orthophoto allows different types of vegetation to be identified (e.g. fern, grass, 



16  blackberry, flax).  Ground control check points provided Root Mean Squared (RMS) (x axis:11 cm, y axis: 7cm and z axis: 24cm).  Figure 5.  Waikite calibrated thermal infrared orthophoto.  Black box is expanded in Figure 8-.  Map Datum NZGD2000.   



17   Figure 6.  Waikite RGB orthophoto. Yellow dots show location of ground control points. Area within black box is expanded in Figure 8-.  Map Datum NZGD2000.   



18   Figure 7.  Waikite digital elevation model (DEM). Yellow dots show location of ground control points. Map Datum NZGD2000.    



19    Figure 8.  Expanded area showing (a) temperature calibrated, and (b) heat flux imagery of Lake Puakohurea in inaccessible terrain (19cm pixel size)(see black box Figure 5), and (b) .   Map Datum NZGD2000.  Note:  Lake is 43ºC where springs inflow (eastern side of the lake), then cools as it flows to the western outflow. a b 



20    Figure 9.  Expanded area showing high resolution (a) visible imagery, and (b) DEM of Lake Puakohurea in inaccessible terrain (4cm pixel size) (see black box in Figure 6).   Map Datum a b 



21  NZGD2000.  Note: irregular texture of DEM on lake surface is an artifact of the photogrammetry method; water does not provide a stationary surface.   Figure 10.  Thermal camera calibration.  Points are colour coded according to the time of day and ambient temperature during calibration flight.  Line of best fit and equation are for all points. Standard error = 2.3 °C (for measurements <80°C).  4 Discussion and Conclusions  Recent advances in drone technology, combined with light weight thermal sensors provide a new method for mapping volcanic and geothermal areas at high resolution.   However, studies to date have reported only single thermal images (Amici et al., 2013), or very small mosaics (700m2), y = 0.0209x - 69.999R² = 0.981501020304050607080901003500 4500 5500 6500 7500 8500Measured Temperature( °C)Pixel Value0800 13C1100 20C1500 20C0800 14C



22  without temperature calibration (Nishar et al., 2016).  Our results greatly expand upon previous reports in terms of area (2.2 km2), and by providing temperature calibration, which has allowed an estimate of heat flow.    Our results are important because they show this approach provides a viable alternative to crewed aircraft, at least at the scale of this survey.  Depending on survey size and drone type, drones may offer a more economic survey platform than crewed aircraft.  They can also fly slower, at much lower altitudes, safely allowing higher resolution imagery (for a given sensor).    The temperature calibrated imagery presented here represents a mosaic of nearly 6000 thermal images captured by drone over a period of 2 weeks.  To our knowledge, this is the first square-km-scale, temperature calibrated and georeferenced image of a geothermal area ever produced by a drone equipped with a thermal camera.  Temperature calibration and georeferencing of imagery provides the potential for more accurate and reproducible surface heat flow surveying of volcanic and geothermal areas.  This has potential applications in volcanic monitoring (Harris, 2013; Vilardo et al., 2015), geothermal exploration (Muffler and Cataldi, 1978), hydrothermal reservoir modelling (O’Sullivan et al., 2001; O’Sullivan et al., 2009) and environmental monitoring (Allis, 1981; Bromley and Hochstein, 2000; Óladóttir and Fridriksson, 2015).  Our study demonstrates there are no technical barriers preventing the use of drones to produce accurate thermal and visible maps of large, inaccessible geothermal areas  For non-thermal imagery, the ground resolution (4cm) and horizontal position error (~10cm) are comparable to commercially produced LiDAR and aerial imagery obtained from crewed aircraft.   



23   Calibrated thermal imagery and Monte Carlo analysis provided a mean total surface heat loss of 43 ± 12 MW for thermal lakes and streams in the survey area, for the survey time period.  The standard deviation (12 MW) results from meteorological variations expected during the survey period (ambient air temperature, wind speed, humidity, barometric pressure).     The mean surface heat loss 43 ± 12 MW is a probably a minimum, as a small proportion of thermal water is not visible from above (e.g. obscured by vegetation).   This value is for evaporation, conduction and radiation; it does not consider advective heat loss associated with ebullition, or advective heat loss associated with the Otamakokore stream flow (Bibby et al., 1995), which comprises nearly all surface out-flow from the survey area (43 MW, Glover et al., 1992)(46MW; Healy, 1952).  Assuming a similar heat flow today, the total heat loss for the Waikite survey area averaged ~86MW during the survey period.     Acknowledgments We would like to acknowledge the New Zealand Department of Conservation, Penoak Farm, Ngati Tahu-Ngati Whaoa Runanga, Ngati Raukawa, Waikite Valley Thermal Pools, GNS Science, Waikite Landcorp Farm, ICI Cameras and The University of Auckland.  



24  REFERENCES Allis, R. G. (1981). Changes in heat flow associated with exploitation of Wairakei geothermal field, New Zealand. New Zealand Journal of Geology and Geophysics, 24(1), 1-19. Amici, S., Turci, M., Giulietti, F., Giammanco, S., Buongiorno, M. F., La Spina, A., & Spampinato, L. (2013). Volcanic environments monitoring by drones mud volcano case study. International Archives of the Photo-grammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, UAV, 1, W2. Berryman, K., Villamor, P., Nairn, I., Van Dissen, R., Begg, J., & Lee, J. (2008). Late Pleistocene surface rupture history of the Paeroa fault, Taupo rift, New Zealand. New Zealand Journal of Geology and Geophysics, 51(2), 135-158. Bibby, H. M., Glover, R. B., & Whiteford, P. C. (1995). The Heat Output of the Waimangu, Waiotapu-Waikite and Reporoa Geothermal Systems (NZ): Do Chloride Fluxes Provide an Accurate Measure? (No. GEO-PROC-95-02). Kelburn Research Centre, IGNS, Wellington, NZ; Wairakei Research Centre, IGNS, Taupo, NZ. Bromley, C.J., (1992). Waikite - Te Kopia the missing link? New Zealand Geothermal Workshop 1992 Proceedings. Bromley, C. J., & Hochstein, M. P. (2000). Heat transfer of the Karapiti fumarole field (1946-2000). In Proceedings of the New Zealand Geothermal Workshop (pp. 87-92). Dawson, G.B. (1964).  The nature and assessment of heat flow from hydrothermal areas.  NZ Journal of Geology and Geophysics, Volume 7, pages 155-171. Dawson, G. B., & Dickinson, D. J. (1970). Heat flow studies in thermal areas of the North Island of New Zealand. Geothermics, 2, 466-473. Fonstad, M. A., Dietrich, J. T., Courville, B. C., Jensen, J. L. and Carbonneau, P. E. (2013). Topographic structure from motion: a new development in photogrammetric measurement. Earth Surf. Proc. Land, 38: 421–430. doi: 10.1002/esp.3366. Fridriksson, T., B. R. Kristjánsson, H. Ármannsson, E. Margrétardóttir, S. Ólafsdóttir, and G. Chiodini (2006). CO2 emissions and heat flow through soil, fumaroles, and steam heated mud pools at the Reykjanes geothermal area, SW Iceland, Appl. Geochem., 21, 1551-1569. Glover, R. B., Klyen, L. E., & Crump, M. E. (1992). Spring chemistry of the Waikite-Puakohurea thermal area. New Zealand Geothermal Workshop 1992 Proceedings. Harris, A. (2013). Thermal Remote Sensing of Active Volcanoes: A User's Manual. Cambridge University Press. Harvey, M.C., Pearson, S., Alexander, K.B., Rowland, J. & White, P. (2014). Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) for cost effective aerial orthophotos and digital surface models (DSMs). New Zealand Geothermal Workshop 2014 Proceedings. 



25  Harwin S, Lucieer A. (2012). Assessing the Accuracy of Georeferenced Point Clouds Produced via Multi-View Stereopsis from Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Imagery. Remote Sensing; 4(6):1573-1599. Healy, J. (1952). Waikite Hot Springs - to inspect the Waikite thermal area and assess its geothermal resources.  DSIR Report, November 1952. Rotorua. NIWA (2015) NIWA National Climate Database.  http://cliflo.niwa.co.nz/ McGonigle, A. J. S., Aiuppa, A., Giudice, G., Tamburello, G., Hodson, A. J., & Gurrieri, S. (2008). Unmanned aerial vehicle measurements of volcanic carbon dioxide fluxes. Geophysical research letters, 35(6). Muffler, P., & Cataldi, R. (1978). Methods for regional assessment of geothermal resources. Geothermics, 7(2), 53-89. Óladóttir, A. A., & Friðriksson, Þ. (2015). The Evolution of CO2 Emissions and Heat Flow through Soil since 2004 in the Utilized Reykjanes Geothermal Area, SW Iceland: Ten Years of Observations on Changes in Geothermal Surface Activity. Proceedings World Geothermal Congress 2015, Melbourne, Australia. O'Sullivan, M. J., Pruess, K., & Lippmann, M. J. (2001). State of the art of geothermal reservoir simulation. Geothermics, 30(4), 395-429. O'Sullivan, M. J., Yeh, A., & Mannington, W. I. (2009). A history of numerical modelling of the Wairakei geothermal field. Geothermics, 38(1), 155-168. Reeves, R.R., Power, J.F., Boothroyd, I.K.G, (2011a). Physical, microbiological and invertebrate characterisation of the Waikite Wetland post 2009 restoration works.  GNS Science Report 2011/23. Reeves, R.R., Power, J.F., Boothroyd, I.K.G, (2011b). Waikite wetland restoration project: initial results.  New Zealand Geothermal Workshop 2011 Proceedings. Robert, C., & Casella, G. (2013). Monte Carlo statistical methods. Springer Science & Business Media. Sorey, M. L., & Colvard, E. M. (1994). Measurements of heat and mass flow from thermal areas in Lassen Volcanic National Park, California, 1984-93 (No. 94-4180-A). US Geological Survey; USGS Earth Science Information Center, Open-File Reports Section. Vilardo, G., Sansivero, F., & Chiodini, G. (2015). Long‐term TIR imagery processing for spatiotemporal monitoring of surface thermal features in volcanic environment: A case study in the Campi Flegrei (Southern Italy). Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 120(2), 812-826. Westoby, M. J., Brasington, J., Glasser, N. F., Hambrey, M. J., & Reynolds, J. M. (2012). ‘Structure-from-Motion’ photogrammetry: A low-cost, effective tool for geoscience applications. Geomorphology, 179, 300-314. 


Citations (27)References (30)... Calibration equations/algorithms that were provided by the sensor vendor or processing software have been applied to achieve surface temperature information [48,49]. In addition, the empirical line method that is based on the linear relationship between at-sensor radiometric temperature and the corresponding surface temperature has been used in a variety of studies [47,50]. It is worth noting that radiometric calibration is sensitive to the environment, air temperature, humidity, and the temperature of other objects, which would have a substantial impact on the perceived temperature of the vegetation [51][52][53].  ...... The ground measured temperatures from the various surfaces were compared with the corresponding temperatures in the radiometrically calibrated thermal imagery to evaluate the effectiveness of the calibration procedures along with temperature accuracy that was captured by different thermal cameras. Moreover, the thermal imagery was further corrected using the empirical line method based on ground temperature measurements [39,50].  ...UAV-Based High Resolution Thermal Imaging for Vegetation Monitoring, and Plant Phenotyping Using ICI 8640 P, FLIR Vue Pro R 640, and thermoMap CamerasArticleFull-text availableFeb 2019 Vasit Sagan Maitiniyazi Maimaitijiang Paheding SidikeTodd MocklerThe growing popularity of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) in recent years, along with decreased cost and greater accessibility of both UAVs and thermal imaging sensors, has led to the widespread use of this technology, especially for precision agriculture and plant phenotyping. There are several thermal camera systems in the market that are available at a low cost. However, their efficacy and accuracy in various applications has not been tested. In this study, three commercially available UAV thermal cameras, including ICI 8640 P-series (Infrared Cameras Inc., USA), FLIR Vue Pro R 640 (FLIR Systems, USA), and thermoMap (senseFly, Switzerland) have been tested and evaluated for their potential for forest monitoring, vegetation stress detection, and plant phenotyping. Mounted on multi-rotor or fixed wing systems, these cameras were simultaneously flown over different experimental sites located in St. Louis, Missouri (forest environment), Columbia, Missouri (plant stress detection and phenotyping), and Maricopa, Arizona (high throughput phenotyping). Thermal imagery was calibrated using procedures that utilize a blackbody, handheld thermal spot imager, ground thermal targets, emissivityand atmospheric correction. A suite of statistical analyses, including analysis of variance (ANOVA), correlation analysis between camera temperature and plant biophysical and biochemical traits, and heritability were utilized in order to examine the sensitivity and utility of the cameras against selected plant phenotypic traits and in the detection of plant water stress. In addition, in reference to quantitative assessment of image quality from different thermal cameras, a non-reference image quality evaluator, which primarily measures image focus that is based on the spatial relationship of pixels in different scales, was developed. Our results show that (1) UAV-based thermal imaging is a viable tool in precision agriculture and (2) the three examined cameras are comparable in terms of their efficacy for plant phenotyping. Overall, accuracy, when compared against field measured ground temperature and estimating power of plant biophysical and biochemical traits, the ICI 8640 P-series performed better than the other two cameras, followed by FLIR Vue Pro R 640 and thermoMap cameras. Our results demonstrated that all three UAV thermal cameras provide useful temperature data for precision agriculture and plant Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 330 2 of 29 phenotying, with ICI 8640 P-series presenting the best results among the three systems. Cost wise, FLIR Vue Pro R 640 is more affordable than the other two cameras, providing a less expensive option for a wide range of applications.ViewShow abstract... Although their flight was limited to one façade and one pass around the building, Zulgalfi and Tahar are one such team that used ground control points with the intention of aiding the photogrammetry software in identifying tie-in points [55]. Other researchers specify ground control points so as to easily place the location of the photo while auditing volcanoes [30,42], or use ground control points to achieve spatial accuracy in their flight path (although current software capabilities address limitations in these methods) [41,49]. Feifei et al. use a UAS with four attached cameras to ensure high precision aerial triangulation for accurate results.  ...... The nondestructive and non-contact nature of infrared thermo- graphy is especially of use to projects that deal with historical buildings or works of art [62,64,65], or to areas that have experienced cata- strophic disasters [42]. Grinzato details an instance where a historic fresco, which seemingly survived an earthquake, was discovered to be full of cracks and weak points when captured with infrared cameras.  ...Review of Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) applications in the built environment: Towards automated building inspection procedures using dronesArticleFull-text availableSep 2018AUTOMAT CONSTR Tarek Rakha Alice GorodetskyView... In aviation, IRT is also used for rescue, firefighting, and surveillance operations [18,19]. Other applications of IRT diagnostics can be found in the area of unmanned vehicles, whose thermal imaging cameras are used to inspect power lines [20], pipelines [21], buildings [22], constructions [23], vegetation [24], etc. Thermography has also recently found an application in the design of stealth aircraft [25].  ...Intelligent Thermal Imaging-Based Diagnostics of Turbojet EnginesArticleFull-text availableMay 2019 Rudolf Andoga Ladislav Fozo Martin SchrötterMichal SchreinerThere are only a few applications of infrared thermal imaging in aviation. In the area of turbojet engines, infrared imaging has been used to detect temperature field anomalies in order to identify structural defects in the materials of engine casings or other engine parts. In aviation applications, the evaluation of infrared images is usually performed manually by an expert. This paper deals with the design of an automatic intelligent system which evaluates the technical state and diagnoses a turbojet engine during its operation based on infrared thermal (IRT) images. A hybrid system interconnecting a self-organizing feature map and an expert system is designed for this purpose. A Kohonen neural network (the self-organizing feature map) is successfully applied to segment IRT images of a turbojet engine with high precision, and the expert system is then used to create diagnostic information from the segmented images. This paper represents a proof of concept of this hybrid system using data from a small iSTC-21v turbojet engine operating in laboratory conditions.ViewShow abstract... Thermal cameras measure thermal radiation of ob- jects in a scene and can therefore operate in utter dark- ness, revealing information not visible to the normal eye ( Gade and Moeslund, 2014). The combination of drones and thermal cameras is used in many different applications such as geography ( Harvey et al., 2016), agriculture ( Bendig et al., 2012), search and res- cue ( Rivera et al., 2017), wildlife monitoring (Christiansen et al., 2014), disaster response (Gonnissen, 2016), maintenance (Workswell, 2016), etc.  ...Pluggable Drone Imaging Analysis Framework for Mob Detection during Open-Air EventsConference PaperFull-text availableFeb 2019 Jerico MoeyersonsBrecht VerhoevePieter-Jan MaenhautFilip De TurckDrones and thermal cameras are often combined within applications such as search and rescue, and fire fighting. Due to vendor specific hardware and software, applications for these drones are hard to develop and maintain. As a result, a pluggable drone imaging analysis architecture is proposed that facilitates the development of custom image processing applications. This architecture is prototyped as a microservice-based plugin framework and allows users to build image processing applications by connecting media streams using mi-croservices that connect inputs (e.g. regular or thermal camera image streams) to image analysis services. The prototype framework is evaluated in terms of modifiability, interoperability and performance. This evaluation has been carried out on the use case of detecting large crowds of people (mobs) during open-air events. The framework achieves modifiability and performance by being able to work in soft real-time and it achieves the interoperability by having an average successful exchange ratio of 99.998%. A new dataset containing thermal images of such mobs is presented, on which a YOLOv3 neural network is trained. The trained model is able to detect mobs on new thermal images in real-time achieving frame rates of 55 frames per second when deployed on a modern GPU.ViewShow abstract... These approaches of synthesizing UAV-based data with data generated from other sources is beneficial to better understand how UAVs can be inte- grated with current analytical practices. Clearly, the use of UAVs in geological and geotechnical engineering has been dominated by RGB imaging and relative displacement sensing, but other camera types, such as IR, have been used to investigate areas of geothermal activity ( Harvey et al. 2016;Nishar et al. 2016).  ...Applications of UAVs in Civil InfrastructureArticleJan 2019J Infrastruct Syst William Greenwood Jerome P. Lynch Dimitrios ZekkosUnmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), or drones, have become popular tools for practitioners and researchers alike. Recent years have seen a significant increase in UAV uses for many applications in the fields of science and engineering. A broad array of research development in UAVs has been reported in the literature. This paper provides a summary review of efforts related to UAV development with a focus on civil infrastructure applications. First, guidance is provided for researchers looking to newly incorporate UAVs into their research efforts. The advantages and disadvantages between different UAV types are outlined and performance characteristics discussed. Examples of different sensor payloads that demonstrate expanded functionality are provided. The review also provides an overview of research efforts in the emerging domain of wireless sensor networks and data processing algorithms specific to UAV-collected data. Highlights of recent achievements of UAVs in post-disaster reconnaissance, infrastructure component monitoring, geotechnical engineering, and construction management are presented. Lessons learned from UAV implementation and considerations for good practice are also discussed. The paper concludes with a discussion of the emerging and future research domains that address the most pressing knowledge gaps in current practice.ViewShow abstract... Nowadays, UAVs have been implemented in several sectors of the society such as agriculture, surveillance, transportation, envi- ronment monitoring, topography and recreation [1]. * In many of these developments, a plethora of sen- sor modalities have been used for different application cases, such as vision [2], infrared [3], and even au- dio [4]. In the case of audio, an important application case is that of detecting unauthorized drone operation.  ...AIRA-UAS: an Evaluation Corpus for Audio Processing in Unmanned Aerial SystemConference PaperJun 2018Oscar Ruiz-Espitia Jose Martinez-Carranza Caleb RasconViewThermal Mapping of Icelandic Geothermal Surface Manifestations with a DroneConference PaperFull-text availableFeb 2019Grimur Bjornsson Gunnar GrímssonAri SigurdssonValdimar S LaenenViewGEOTHERMAL MONITORING USING REMOTELY SENSED DATA AND CLOUD COMPUTINGConference PaperFull-text availableFeb 2019 Mark Charles Harvey Katherine Mary LuketinaJim McLeod J. RowlandGeothermal features have great social and economic values, which may be impacted by the development of geothermal energy. This report provides a summary of recent environmental monitoring activities undertaken by the Waikato Regional Council utilising modern methods. Activities include mapping large areas using drones and crewed aircraft, equipped with a variety of sensors including thermal infrared, visible and near-infrared. The resulting imagery was processed using desktop and powerful cloud-based virtual machines, providing high-resolution 3D models and aerial orthophotos for areas in the TVZ (Waikite, Wairakei, Tauhara, Reporoa and Waiotapu) and northern Waikato (Gravesons Rd). Visualisation of 3D models has benefited from recent advances in immersive virtual reality (VR) technology. Ground-based surveying has utilised detailed soil CO2 flux measurements in combination with traditional temperature probe methods on areas of steaming ground at Wairakei, Tauhara and Reporoa. These methods have provided localised estimates of heat and CO2 flow of interest to ongoing monitoring, while addressing broader questions on the characteristics of the underlying geothermal systems.ViewShow abstractEfficient hydrogeological characterization of remote stream corridors using dronesArticleDec 2018HYDROL PROCESS Martin BriggsCian B. DawsonChristopher L. Holmquist-Johnson John William LaneViewApplication of Low-Cost Fixed-Wing UAV for Inland Lakes Shoreline InvestigationChapterFull-text availableJan 2019 Tomasz Templin Dariusz PopielarczykRafał KoseckiViewShow moreThermal infrared imaging of geothermal environments by UAV (Unmanned aerial vehicles)ArticleJan 2016 Abdul NisharSteve Richards Daniel Breen Barbara A BreenUnmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are increasingly being used for aerial surveys and monitoring of geothermal environments. Advances in UAV technology have made it a valuable option for project and environmental managers to consider. The many advantages of UAVs are encouraging users to employ these platforms in many different and new applications. In this study, we use a small (<2 kg), affordable quadcopter to safely and accurately map heat patterns of cryptic geothermal fumaroles. An aerial thermal infrared camera is used to map heat signatures of a geothermal feature in the Wairakei–Tauhara geothermal field near Taupo, New Zealand. The platform consists of a battery-powered quadcopter mounted with a FLIR Tau 320 camera and sensor. The 700 m2 area was flown and images mosaicked and processed using Pix4D and ArcGIS 10.2. The orthorectified image with pixel size of 0.5 cm showed a warm to hot thermal anomaly. A high level of resolution was achieved by flying at altitudes unsafe for conventional manned aircra...ViewShow abstractSpring chemistry of the Waikite-Puakohurea thermal areaArticleJan 1992R. GloverL. KlyenM. CrumpViewUnmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) for cost effective aerial orthophotos and digital surface models (DSM).Conference PaperFull-text availableJan 2014 Mark Charles HarveySophie Pearson Kenneth B. Alexander Phil WhiteHigh quality aerial photos (orthophotos) and digital surface models (DSM) are invaluable at all phases of geothermal exploration and development including geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys, environmental baseline studies, geotechnical studies, civil works, steam field design, plant design and construction. High resolution (<0.1m) imagery and data are typically collected by sensors mounted on board manned light aircraft. Lower resolution imagery (>0.5m) can be obtained from satellite imagery. A rapidly improving alternative is the collection of imagery from sensors mounted on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Such imagery can be used to produce high resolution (<0.1m) orthophotos, or DSM’s of comparable quality to LiDAR. UAVs offer orthophotos and DSM’s at a fraction of the cost of manned aircraft, at a higher resolution than is currently available from satellite. The economics of UAV’s allow for cost effective repeat surveying, useful for progress reporting during construction, or potentially monitoring subsidence due to fluid extraction. In this paper, we describe a case study of a UAV-derived DSM produced from aerial images of the Poihipi geothermal steam field in New Zealand. The DSM is compared to a commercially produced LiDAR DEM from the same area.ViewShow abstractThermal Remote Sensing of Active Volcanoes: A User's ManualArticleJan 2011A.J.L. HarrisEncapsulating over one hundred years of research developments, this book is a comprehensive manual for measurements of Earth surface temperatures and heat fluxes, enabling better detection and measurement of volcanic activity. With a particular focus on volcanic hot spots, the book explores methodologies and principles used with satellite-, radiometer- and thermal-camera data. it presents traditional applications using satellite and ground based sensors as well as modern applications that have evolved for use with hand-held thermal cameras and is fully illustrated with case studies, databases and worked examples. Chapter topics include techniques for thermal mixture modelling and heat flux derivation, and methods for data collection, mapping and time-series generation. Appendices and online supplements present additional specific notes on areas of sensor application and data processing, supported by an extensive reference list. This book is an invaluable resource for academic researchers and graduate students in thermal remote sensing, volcanology, geophysics and planetary studies..ViewShow abstractLong-term TIR imagery processing for spatiotemporal monitoring of surface thermal features in volcanic environment: A case study in the Campi Flegrei (Southern Italy)ArticleFeb 2015 G. Vilardo Fabio Sansivero Giovanni ChiodiniDifferent procedures were used to analyze a comprehensive time series of night-time thermal infrared images acquired from October 2006 to June 2013 by a permanent station at Pisciarelli (Campi Flegrei, Italy). The methodologies were aimed at the detection and quantification of possible spatiotemporal changes in the ground-surface thermal features of an area affected by diffuse degassing. Long-term infrared time-series images were processed without taking into account atmospheric conditions and emissivity estimations. The data obtained were compared with trends of independent geophysical and geochemical parameters, which suggested that long-term temporal variations of the surface maximum temperatures were governed by the dynamics of the deeper hydrothermal system. Analogously, the dynamics of the shallow hydrothermal system are likely to control the short-period thermal oscillations that overlie the long-term thermal signals. The map of yearly rates of temperature change shows temperature increases clustered in the thermal anomalous area of the infrared images, without evidence of modifications to the extension of the anomaly or of growth of new areas with significant thermal emission. This suggests that in the present state, the heat transfer is mainly due to hot gas emission through pre-existing fractures and vents. Our data indicate that the comprehensive picture of the spatiotemporal evolution of the thermal features of the hydrothermal sites obtained by long-term infrared monitoring can provide useful information toward refining physical and conceptual models, as well as improving surveillance of active volcanoes.ViewShow abstractTopographic Structure from Motion: a new development in photogrammetric measurementArticleMar 2013EARTH SURF PROC LAND Mark A. Fonstad James Thomas DietrichBrittany C. Courville Patrice CarbonneauThe production of topographic datasets is of increasing interest and application throughout the geomorphic sciences, and river science is no exception. Consequently, a wide range of topographic measurement methods have evolved. Despite the range of available methods, the production of high resolution, high quality digital elevation models (DEMs) requires a significant investment in personnel time, hardware and/or software. However, image-based methods such as digital photogrammetry have been decreasing in costs. Developed for the purpose of rapid, inexpensive and easy three-dimensional surveys of buildings or small objects, the ‘structure from motion’ photogrammetric approach (SfM) is an image-based method which could deliver a methodological leap if transferred to geomorphic applications, requires little training and is extremely inexpensive. Using an online SfM program, we created high-resolution digital elevation models of a river environment from ordinary photographs produced from a workflow that takes advantage of free and open source software. This process reconstructs real world scenes from SfM algorithms based on the derived positions of the photographs in three-dimensional space. The basic product of the SfM process is a point cloud of identifiable features present in the input photographs. This point cloud can be georeferenced from a small number of ground control points collected in the field or from measurements of camera positions at the time of image acquisition. The georeferenced point cloud can then be used to create a variety of digital elevation products. We examine the applicability of SfM in the Pedernales River in Texas (USA), where several hundred images taken from a hand-held helikite are used to produce DEMs of the fluvial topographic environment. This test shows that SfM and low-altitude platforms can produce point clouds with point densities comparable with airborne LiDAR, with horizontal and vertical precision in the centimeter range, and with very low capital and labor costs and low expertise levels. Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.ViewShow abstractHeat transfer of the Karapiti fumarole field (1946-2000)Conference PaperFull-text availableJan 2000 Christopher Bromley Manfred P. HochsteinImprovement in heat transfer calculations for the Karapiti fumarole field are described. Heat loss from conduction, evaporation and direct steam discharge can be assessed using air-photos and infrared surveys. Analyses of 22 air-photos since 1946, and 5 infrared surveys since 1989, are used to map changes in steam discharge, areas of hot ground and areas of thermally tolerant vegetation. The linear relationship between heat loss and normalized steam cloud area observed in recent studies has been applied to older fumarole studies and air-photos. Large changes in heat flux occurred at Karapiti during the first 25 years (from 1950), but changes have been more gradual since 1975. The source of deeper vapour flux has apparently migrated southwards over this period. The heat output of all fumaroles is assessed to have increased from about 30 MW (1950) to 235 MW (1960) then decreased gradually to c. 100 MW (2000). The total heat loss for Karapiti in 2000 is assessed to be 200 MW, 50% from conductive losses and 50% from steam discharges. (auth)ViewShow abstract‘Structure-from-Motion’ photogrammetry: A low-cost, effective tool for geoscience applicationsArticleFull-text availableDec 2012GEOMORPHOLOGY Matt WestobyJames Brasington Neil F. Glasser John M. ReynoldsGeomorphology, 179 (2012) 300-314. doi:10.1016/j.geomorph.2012.08.021ViewShow abstractVolcanic environments monitoring by drones mud volcano case studyConference PaperFull-text availableSep 2013 Stefania Amici Matteo Turci Fabrizio Giulietti Letizia SpampinatoVolcanic activity has often affected human life both at large and at small scale. For example, the 2010 Eyjafjallajokull eruption
caused severe economic damage at continental scale due to its strong effect on air traffic. At a local scale, ash fall and lava flow
emission can cause harm and disruption. Understanding precursory signals to volcanic eruptions is still an open and tricky challenge:
seismic tremor and gas emissions, for example, are related to upcoming eruptive activity but the mechanisms are not yet completely
understood. Furthermore, information related to gases emission mostly comes from the summit crater area of a volcano, which is
usually hard to investigate with required accuracy.
Although many regulation problems are still on the discussion table, an increasing interest in the application of cutting-edge
technology like unmanned flying systems is growing up.
In this sense, INGV (Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia) started to investigate the possibility to use unmanned air
vehicles for volcanic environment application already in 2004. A flight both in visual- and radio-controlled mode was carried out on
Stromboli volcano as feasibility test. In this work we present the preliminary results of a test performed by INGV in collaboration
with the University of Bologna (aerospace division) by using a multi-rotor aircraft in a hexacopter configuration. Thermal camera
observations and flying tests have been realised over a mud volcano located on its SW flank of Mt. Etna and whose activity proved
to be related to early stages of magma accumulation within the volcano.ViewShow abstractChanges in heat flow associated with exploitation of Wairakei Geothermal Field, New ZealandArticleJan 1981NEW ZEAL J GEOL GEOPR. G. AllisFrom measurements made during 1978-79 the total surface heat discharge from Wairakei hydrothermal system has been determined to have been 600 ± 150 MW. This paper describes and discusses the measurements leading to this result and compares it with the results of earlier surveys. The history of mass and heat flows since exploitation began in 1951 is discussed, and a model describing inferred changes within the 2-phase zone is presented.The analysis supports the conclusion that, while total mass flow appears now to be approaching equilibrium, approximately 800 MW of the total heat discharge continues to be derived from falling reservoir temperatures within the 2-phase zone. The 1978–79 heat flow survey has also revealed a 1 km area between the production borefield and Geyser Valley where almost complete cessation of thermal activity has occurred. Faults through this area, which were originally conduits for the ascending hot water that emerged in Geyser Valley, may now be permitting downward infiltration of cold surface water.ViewShow abstractShow moreJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for freeRecommendationsDiscover more publications, questions and projects in GeothermalProjectOnekeneke Stream, Tauhara Geothermal Field, Wairakei-Tauhara Geothermal System, Taupo, New Zealand Katherine Mary Luketina Sadiq J. Zarrouk Yuafrinaldi YuafrinaldiView projectProjectValuing uses of geothermal resources in the Waikato Region Katherine Mary LuketinaView projectProjectCreate new project "Waikato Regional Council Geothermal Policy" Katherine Mary Luketina Blair Nicholas Dickie Bridget Robson[...]Jim McLeodView projectProjectMANGAKINO GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM Katherine Mary Luketina Sadiq J. Zarrouk Dedi RustandiView projectConference PaperFull-text availableGeometric Calibration of Ziyuan-3 Three-line Cameras Combining Ground Control Points and LinesJuly 2016 Jinshan Cao Xiuxiao YuanJianya GongDue to the large biases between the laboratory-calibrated values of the orientation parameters and their in-orbit true values, the initial direct georeferencing accuracy of the Ziyuan-3 (ZY-3) three-line camera (TLC) images can only reach the kilometre level. In this paper, a point-based geometric calibration model of the ZY-3 TLCs is firstly established by using the collinearity constraint, and ... [Show full abstract] then a line-based geometric calibration model is established by using the coplanarity constraint. With the help of both the point-based and the line-based models, a feasible in-orbit geometric calibration approach for the ZY-3 TLCs combining ground control points (GCPs) and ground control lines (GCLs) is presented. Experimental results show that like GCPs, GCLs can also provide effective ground control information for the geometric calibration of the ZY-3 TLCs. The calibration accuracy of the look angles of charge-coupled device (CCD) detectors achieved by using the presented approach reached up to about 1.0''. After the geometric calibration, the direct georeferencing accuracy of the ZY-3 TLC images without ground controls was significantly improved from the kilometre level to better than 11 m in planimetry and 9 m in height. A more satisfactory georeferencing accuracy of better than 3.5 m in planimetry and 3.0 m in height was achieved after the block adjustment with four GCPs.View full-textArticleFull-text availablepositional accuracy assessment for effective shoreline change analysisJune 2016 Cynthia Boye Kwasi Appeaning AddoE. A. WilliamsThe usefulness of any geographic data depends on its fitness for a particular purpose. The critical measure of that fitness is referred to as data quality. Data quality may be expressed in terms of several indicators such as attributes, temporal or positional accuracies. In this research, positional accuracy assessment was carried out on two datasets using Root Mean
Square Error (RMSE) technique. ... [Show full abstract] Coordinates of nineteen ground controls points were measured in the field using
Differential Global Positioning System technique which served as a reference base. The coordinates of these points were
compared with their corresponding positions extracted from the two datasets, Town Sheet (1: 2500) and orthophoto (1:
5000). The Town Sheet was scanned, rescaled (1:5000) and georeferenced in Ghana Meter Grid coordinate system to
conform to the orthophoto. The digitised Town Sheet and the reference base were superimposed with the orthophoto serving
as backdrop in GIS environment. Positional error of 1.23 m was obtained for points extracted from the Town Sheet, while
an error of 2.79 m was registered for points from the orthophoto. Shoreline features extracted from these two datasets and
appended for shoreline change analysis recorded a total positional error of 3.98 m. The study has shown that the original
scale (large) of the Town Sheet may have contributed significantly to the quality of data extracted. In the orthophoto, though
geometrically rectified, the scale representation of a unit measure on the photo explains the uncertainties in the dataset. The
integrated dataset obviously bore the cumulative effect of the input datasets. It is concluded that for the purpose of shoreline
change analysis, such as shoreline change trends, large scale data sources should be used where possible for accurate
decision-making. It is recommended that the positional accuracy of any spatial data be ascertained before using it to support
decisionView full-textConference PaperEfficient Detection of Points of Interest from Georeferenced Visual ContentNovember 2017Ying Lu Juan A. ColmenaresMany people take photos and videos with smartphones and more recently with 360° cameras at popular places and events, and share them in social media. Such visual content is produced in large volumes in urban areas, and it is a source of information that online users could exploit to learn what has got the interest of the general public on the streets of the cities where they live or plan to ... [Show full abstract] visit. A key step to providing users with that information is to identify the most popular k spots in specified areas. In this paper, we propose a clustering and incremental sampling (C&IS) approach that trades off accuracy of top-k results for detection speed. It uses clustering to determine areas with high density of visual content, and incremental sampling, controlled by stopping criteria, to limit the amount of computational work. It leverages spatial metadata, which represent the scenes in the visual content, to rapidly detect the hotspots, and uses a recently proposed Gaussian probability model to describe the capture intention distribution in the query area. We evaluate the approach with metadata, derived from a non-synthetic, user-generated dataset, for regular mobile and 360° visual content. Our results show that the C&IS approach offers 2.8x-19x reductions in processing time over an optimized baseline, while in most cases correctly identifying 4 out of 5 top locations.Read moreArticleFull-text availableEvaluation of groundwater quality for irrigation suitability in Thimmajipet mandal, Mahabubnagar dis...December 2015 Vasu DuraisamyS.K. Singh Pramod Tiwary[...]V P DuraisamiGeoreferenced groundwater samples collected from Thimmajipet mandal, Mahabubnagar district were analyzed and evaluated for their suitability for irrigation. Out of 49 samples, 12 per cent samples recorded pH > 8.5 and electrical conductivity varied from 500 to 5130 µS cm-1. All the samples have high Mg 2+ content and 92 and 94 per cent samples have high Ca 2+ and Na + , respectively. Among the ... [Show full abstract] total groundwater samples 59 per cent have high sodium hazard, 80 per cent with high magnesium hazard, 7 per cent with high Mg/Ca ratio and 100 per cent with very high permeability index. Water samples were classified as C3S1 (29%), C3S2 (39%), C2S2 (2%) and C2S1 (4%). In general, the groundwater in Thimmajipet mandal is unsafe for long-term irrigation use.View full-textDiscover moreDownload citationWhat type of file do you want? RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download? Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadInterested in research on Geothermal?Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest research from leading experts in Geothermal and many other scientific topics.Join for freeorDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back! Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account? Sign upAboutNewsCompanyCareersSupportHelp centerFAQBusiness solutionsRecruitingAdvertising© ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.ImprintTermsPrivacy