



MicraSense Red Edge Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera















					Agriculture UAV Crop Dusters


					MicraSense Red Edge Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera
7 Precision 
					Agriculture Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV Crop Duster Sprayer 
					Platforms
  




































											Agriculture Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 
											(UAV) Sprayers


											by Homeland Surveillance & 
											Electronics LLC 































Agriculture Sprayers

				Comparison Chart

				AG-VA Multi-Rotor Sprayers

				Hercules Helicopter Sprayers

				MRCD6 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				MRCD18 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				MRCD24 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				RHCD-01 Helicopter Sprayer

				RHCD-80-1 Helicopter Sprayer

				RHCD-80-15 Helicopter  Sprayer


				How UAV Sprayers Work  

				What is Vegetation Index Vigor 

				NDVI Multi-Spectral Cameras

				UAVs On The Farm
Guide To 
				Managing Prickly Pear

				Farm Bureau - Drone ROI

				UAV Role In Agriculture

				UAV Planting Trees
Banana Growers
Big Yields Research 
				Center

				Precision AG In The Drone Age

				Yamaha RMAX Crop Sprayer


  

Other Commercial Platforms


				914 Rotax Manned/Unmanned 

				Alliance HD Helicopter 

				Alliance Gas Helicopter 

				Avenger Electric Helicopter 


				RDASS Q1000 Quad-Rotor 

				Delta-FW70 Fixed Wing





				RedEdge™






				Satellite quality data, 
				leaf-scale resolution!




				UAV Pilot Training School


				Class Size Are Limited











						FAA To Crack Down On Airspace Violators



FLY LEGAL



Avoid Fines & 
				Jail Time


      





				 















































Video Library







FAA 
				Releases Small UAS Notice of Proposed Rulemaking! 
				- Check out the provisions being proposed in the FAA’s Small UAS 
				NPRM. 




				FAA Grants UAV Permits for Agriculture & Real Estate Companies
				- The Associated Press reports 
				that on Tuesday, the FAA issued exceptions to the commercial UAV 
				ban, permitting the monitoring of crops and real estate use for 
				aerial photographs of properties for sale. This is the first 
				time permits have been granted to agriculture and real estate 
				companies. 




				FAA Poised to Include Limitations on Hobbyist UAVs -
				The FAA is proposing to amend 
				its regulations to adopt specific rules for the operation of 
				small unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in the National Airspace 
				System (NAS). 
.




				Judge Rules Against FAA in ‘Landmark’ UAV Challenge - 
 In a decision dated March 6,
				NTSB Judge Patrick Geraghty found that 
				the FAA has no regulations that apply 
				to model aircraft or that classify a model aircraft as an 
				unmanned aircraft system.


UAV FAA 
				Regulations -  
For more than five 
				decades, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has compiled 
				a proven track record of introducing new technology and aircraft 
				safely into the National Airspace System (NAS). 



				FAA Fact Sheet – Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) 
				- For Immediate Release. 



				FAA Certificate of Authorization or Waiver (COA) 
- Before you can 
				operate a UAV in National Airspace System (NAS) you must have a 
				COA. The average time to issue an authorization for 
				non-emergency operations is less than 60 days,  















							FREE UAV WORLD NEWSLETTER




We'll 
							help keep you abreast of what is happening in the 
							world of UAV's. Its FREE!





							Email:
 





 














New & 
				Used UAV For Sale -
				Commercial, industrial, military, first 
				responders and police UAV's with 1 - 75 lb payload helicopter 
				UAV. Autopilots, cameras and more. Check them out! 


Demo UAV For 
				Sale - Great 
				Saving on our Demo Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs For Sale.  
				All of our Demo UAV Units for sale have low flight hours and are 
				in excellent condition.  




The UAV Blog 
- Find out 
				what others are saying about the World of UAVs.  Share your 
				2 cents worth with them!  No 
				Sign-up required!




				TATTU PLUS 

				Smart Battery







GoPro 
				Cameras & Lens



















RedEdge™


Satellite quality data, 
						leaf-scale resolution!


						5 COLOR
						MULTI-SPECTRAL CAMERA
						Designed for the agriculture market.


Blue - Green - Red - Red 
						Edge - Near-Infrared



New technologies are 
				revolutionizing the use of remote sensing in agriculture. The 
				widespread availability of low cost drones enables agricultural 
				professionals to cost-effectively gather crop health information 
				without waiting for satellite passes or paying the high costs of 
				manned-aircraft flights. Information can be collected at 
				resolutions measured in just inches per pixel. Data captured on 
				a frequent basis enables growers and agronomists to map the 
				health and vigor of crops today as well as observing how that 
				crop is changing over time.

				MicaSense delivers technologies that enable this revolution. Our 
				advanced data gathering and processing system, coupled with 
				professional analysis tools, provide accurate and repeatable 
				information on the status of a crop. Raw data from the MicaSense 
				camera is transformed into vegetation index maps. Powerful 
				analytics provide time-based trends and change maps. Analysis 
				tools such as plant population counts enable optimized farm 
				management.
The MicaSense RedEdge™ is 
				an advanced, lightweight, multispectral camera optimized for use 
				in small unmanned aircraft systems, and available for use on 
				manned aircraft as well. RedEdge™ provides accurate multi-band 
				data for agricultural remote sensing applications.

				RedEdge™ is much more than just a camera, sharing more design 
				features with Earth imaging satellites than it does with 
				standard consumer cameras. Industrial imaging sensors provide 
				high dynamic range in varying lighting conditions while removing 
				artifacts commonly seen in drone video and imagery. Coupled with 
				MicaSense Data Services, RedEdge™ provides a complete imaging, 
				processing, and analysis system ready for integration with any 
				platform.

				Need a closer look? Unplug your RedEdge™ and go handheld. An 
				integrated shutter button lets you take close-ups of areas of 
				interest, and with the optional GPS module, maintain geo-tagging 
				and time-stamping of all of your multispectral images.

Features


More than just pretty 
					pictures - simultaneous capture of five discrete spectral 
					bands optimized for crop health data gathering.

Fly fast - we can keep 
					up! Capturing all bands once per second enables faster 
					flight speeds and lower altitude captures.

Distortion-free - 
					global shutter design creates distortion-free images on 
					every platform.
					Single card - tired of juggling multiple cards? With RedEdge™, 
					one SD card stores all images and data for easy data 
					transfer.

Metadata included - 
					all image files are time-stamped and geo-tagged, no third 
					party tools or autopilot logs required.

Fully calibrated - 
					leave your integrating sphere at home, we have you covered. 
					Every camera comes fully calibrated for precise, repeatable 
					measurements every time.

Stand-alone - with 
					external GPS connections and self-triggering capability, 
					easily collect geo-tagged data without any connections to 
					the host vehicle.

Data at your 
					fingertips - With Wi-Fi built in, preview images and change 
					settings from your phone, tablet, and computer.

Fully integrated - our 
					convenient Ethernet, serial, and Wi-Fi host interfaces allow 
					tight integration with any platform.

No moving parts - 
					solid-state design means nothing to break on those dusty 
					days or the occasional harsh landing.


				Specifications
Weight 150 g (5.3 oz)
				Dimensions 4.8” x 2.6” x 1.8” (12.1 cm x 6.6 cm x 4.6 cm)
				Spectral Bands Narrowband filters for Blue, Green, Red, Red 
				Edge, Near-Infrared
				Ground Sample Distance 8.0 cm/pixel (per band) at 120 m (~400 
				ft) AGL
				Capture Speed 1 capture per second (all bands), 12-bit RAW



Example 
				Applications
Multispectral remote 
				sensing provides radically new perspectives on the health and 
				vigor of crops. It allows growers and agronomists to detect 
				areas of stress in a crop and manage these issues immediately. 
				It enables precise application of nutrient inputs and disease 
				preventative actions based on the actual field conditions today. 
				Below are some examples of images and vegetation-index maps 
				using data captured with the MicaSense RedEdge™ camera and 
				analyzed through our data processing tools. Higher vigor areas 
				show as higher numbers. See the FAQ for details on NDVI.








			Converted Single Image Camera

			Blue, Green, Red



MicaSense Red Edge
Blue, 
			Green, Red, Red Edge, Near-Infrared









 
 






Vineyard (from 400 ft)
NDRE (Red Edge-Based NDVI)



Corn (from 400 ft)
Green-Based NDVI



Vineyard (from 200 ft)
Color Composite and NDVI



Vineyard (from 400 ft)
NDVI



Leeks (from 400 ft)
NDVI

Data 
				Services
Launching in early summer 
				of 2015, MicaSense offers a powerful data service for storage, 
				processing, analysis, and presentation of multispectral data. 
				Using a secure cloud-based server, your raw data is processed 
				into actionable information that can be accessed from any 
				internet-connected device.


















						Fly your mission


						Securely upload 
						your raw data


						Accurate crop-health maps 
						automatically created

View and manage your 
						data from anywhere




Secure - Your data is 
					encrypted during upload and storage.

Accurate - We do the 
					heavy lifting to provide you reliable data. Our processing 
					workflows include band-to-band registration and 
					implementation of camera calibration parameters to ensure 
					accurate results.

A Complete Solution - 
					Your processed data is presented as ortho-rectified map 
					layers, vegetation index layers (NDVI, GNDVI, GRVI, etc.), 
					and analytics information maps.

Easy to Navigate - Our 
					intuitive user interface allows you to quickly define field 
					boundaries, manage data layers and overlays, and securely 
					share your data.

Flexible - Our data 
					platform includes an API for access by developers and 
					customized application integrators.



You 
				will find here sample images and processed orthomosaics 
				representative of RedEdge. The following types of files are 
				included:

				Sample RAW Image Files: Containing the unprocessed 
				output files, as they are captured by the camera (one 16-bit RAW 
				TIFF file per band).

				Rendered Images: Multi-color renderings of 
				various vegetation indices and composite images generated from 
				the reflectance-calibrated GEOTIF files.

				Orthomosaic GEOTIF File: These files show a fully processed 
				output in GEOTIF format. These files contain 
				reflectance-calibrated bands normalized so that a pixel 
				intensity value of 32768 corresponds to 100% reflectance for 
				each band. Each layer of the GEOTIF is registered to all others 
				at the pixel level. Note that these images may not open 
				correctly in some image viewers. They are intended to be viewed 
				using GIS software (ArcGIS, ArcMap, QGIS ...)



Potatoes and Canola

Data captured at 60 meters AGL (200 ft AGL) 
using RedEdge with 4 bands.
Sample RAW Image Files:
Double Click for Larger Images


















Blue (480 nm)
Green (540 nm)
Red (670 nm)
Near IR (840 nm)




Rendered Images:
 
 
 
 















RGB
CIR
NDVI
GNDVI
GRVI



Grazing Field
Data captured at 60 meters AGL (200 ft AGL) using RedEdge with 5 
	bands.

	Sample RAW Image Files:

















			Blue
			(480 nm)


			Green
			(560 nm)


			Red
			(670 nm)


			Red Edge
			(720 nm)


			Near IR
			(840 nm)




Note: white items are grazing animals.



Rendered Images:
 
 
 
 















RGB
CIR
NDVI
NDRE



NDVI






Vineyard
Data captured at 135 meters AGL (450 ft AGL) using RedEdge with 5 
		bands.

		Sample RAW Image Files:


















			Blue
			(480 nm)


			Green
			(560 nm)


			Red
			(670 nm)


			Red Edge
			(720 nm)


			Near IR
			(840 nm)


















			Blue
			(480 nm)


			Green
			(560 nm)


			Red
			(670 nm)


			Red Edge
			(720 nm)


			Near IR
			(840 nm)




Rendered Images:
 
 
 
 


















RGB
CIR
NDVI
NDRE



NDVI Vines








		Frequently Asked Questions



What is 
		Intelligent Image Processing IIP?
Image processing is required to convert the hundreds or thousands of 
		images into one image, and then that is converted to what is known as NDVI. If you have not been involved with this specific image 
		processing in the past, then it is highly recommended that you contact a 
		professional processor as the procedures are very tedious and require 
		much time, computing power, and monetary investment. You can purchase 
		Pix4D or an equivalent for $5,000, spend thousands on a high speed 
		computer, take countless classes, and still be frustrated. To reiterate, 
		it is highly recommended to start off using post processing services 
		from a company such as Micasense and other companies, have 
		upload portals to upload images, super computers to process the data 
		efficiently, specialized software, and some have a PhD agronomists to provide you 
		with the proper data. Get your business up and running using a data 
		processor, first, and if, later, you find you have excess time, money, 
		and patience, you may attempt to process the data yourself. Even then, 
		the cost assessment and resulting quality of data between using an 
		online post data processing service and performing the task yourself is 
		highly in favor of using an online service. Provided you have the proper 
		background, this may not pertain to you; however, for those who are 
		inexperienced in this type of data processes, using an online data 
		processor is strongly recommended. Using an online service is both more 
		cost effective and simpler (no equipment to purchase or software to 
		lease) and the results are guaranteed. Using one of these services will 
		guarantee the availability of the data to your customer for certain.








What is multispectral imaging?
The colors we see in light are 
		defined by the wavelength of that light. Plants absorb and reflect light 
		differently depending on this wavelength. Plants typically absorb blue 
		light and red light, while reflecting some green light. They also 
		reflect a much larger amount of near-infrared (NIR) light, which is not 
		visible to the human eye but is visible to the RedEdge™. The reflectance 
		curve of a typical plant is shown below. Reflectance is the percent of 
		light that is reflected by the plant. 
By measuring the reflectance of a 
		plant at different wavelengths, multispectral imaging enables 
		identification of areas of stress in a crop, and provides a quantitative 
		metric for the vigor of a plant.





How do multispectral cameras work?
Multispectral cameras work by 
		imaging different wavelengths of light. The MicaSense RedEdge™ 
		multispectral camera has 5 imagers, each with a special optical filter 
		that allows only a precise set of light wavelengths to be captured by 
		that imager. Once processed, the output of the camera data is a set of 
		images where the value of each pixel is equal to percent reflectance of 
		light for that particular wavelength. These sets of images are then 
		stitched together to create geographically accurate mosaics, with 
		multiple layers for each wavelength. Mathematically combining these 
		layers yields vegetation indices. There are many types of vegetation 
		indices that measure different characteristics of a plant. Some indices, 
		for example, are useful for measuring chlorophyll content of plant 
		leaves. Other indices can be used to estimate nitrogen content. Other 
		indices provide indications of water stress. One popular index is the 
		Normalized Differential Vegetation Index (NDVI, created by combining the 
		reflectance from red and NIR light.








How does RedEdge™ differ from a 
		single-imager multispectral camera?
A single-imager multispectral 
		camera uses a blocking filter, combined with the standard camera's 
		built-in filter to capture information in 3 wavelengths of light. 
		Because these imagers aren't optimized for remote sensing, the built in 
		filters are wideband and suffer from data contamination from neighboring 
		bands. This figure shows a comparison of the RedEdge™ narrowband optical 
		filters and the filters used in a typical single-imager camera.
The RedEdge™ camera uses 
		narrowband filters with known characteristics combined with factory 
		calibration parameters, enabling accurate measurements of reflectance 
		that a converted camera simply cannot match.







NDVI Explained

A simple overview of how drones are used in the 
		farming industry to provide aerial imagery to create NDVI maps to 
		improve crop yields, reduce farming costs, protect the environment and 
		quantify crop damage insurance claims
The FAA recognizes that drones are essential to 
		increasing the productivity of farmlands. Small drones pose a limited 
		risk of injuring people, other aircraft, and property. Thus FAA approval 
		to use drones for farming is coming soon.
Probable FAA policies will revolve around safety, primarily collision 
		avoidance. 

Daylight operation
LOS (Line of Sight) Operation
400' Ceiling
Various safety devices, pilot and aircraft certifications, training, 
		safety protocols, etc.

Agronomists using drones to assist their 
		recommendations for fertilizer and pesticide application can improve the 
		bottom line to farmers by as much as 15%, and help the environment as 
		well.
The world's farmers must increase yields to 
		feed the world's rapidly growing population. Drones are the latest 
		technological advancement to assist in increasing crop yields while 
		lowering pollution and costs.
Large fields and tall crops are extremely 
		difficult to assess from the ground. Drones provide aerial access at a 
		relatively low cost. 
Agronomists operate the drones themselves or 
		hire local drone service providers to fly the fields.
Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) is an extremely important 
		tool to determine if crops are stressed. NDVI compares bands of light to 
		accurately determine plant stress. This is state of the art technology. 
		Wikipedia explains NDVI in detail.
Photos directly from the onboard NDVI 
		compatible camera are unusable as is. The photos must undergo special 
		processing.
First, individual photos are stitched together 
		to make one large photo. Online processors are used for this operation 
		due to the high cost and complexity of the hardware and software.
The high quality single image is converted to a 
		NDVI image. NDVI processing software is inexpensive and easy to use 
		though the same online processors who stitched the photos offer this 
		service inexpensively.
The agronomist uses both the normal and the 
		NDVI images with more traditional methods to assess plant stress. 
Plant stress can be detected well before it can be seen with the naked 
		eye as well as after obvious damage is apparent. 
The agronomist then performs "ground truthing" 
		combined with other traditional methods to verify the NDVI data and 
		determine the cause of the stress. Often the agronomist physically walks 
		into the field and looks at the plants where the NDVI has identified 
		problem areas.
The agronomist then makes recommendations to 
		the farmer. If variable rate applicators are used by the farmer, then 
		varying rates of fertilizer and pesticides are recommended which reduce 
		treatment costs, protect the environment by reducing unnecessary 
		over-applications, and increase yields.

The three photos below are all derived from only one camera. While you 
		see a low resolution image here, the resolution of the actual photo is 
		high enough to see individual blades of grass! The agronomist saves time 
		because if bare earth, standing water or another obvious problem is 
		identified using the image there is no need to walk the field. The 
		sod farmer in this case uses this data to identify excessively large 
		bare spots early on in the growing cycle to replant problem areas and 
		improve yield per acre.














Invasive 
				Species Detection: Canadian Thistle
An NDVI map helped confirm the presence 
				of a Canadian Thistle infestation on this 122 acre corn field. A 
				flat rate herbicide prescription was applied to the entire 
				field. 
As shown in the aerial imagery, 
				inspections confirmed that only 0.6 acres required treatment. An 
				herbicide reduction of over 99% would have been possible with a 
				variable rate prescription, decreasing the overall environmental 
				impact and yield loss.


What is the Normalized Difference 
				Vegetation Index (NDVI?
NDVI maps are useful for detecting 
				plant stress that may be invisible to the human eye. By 
				measuring the spectral characteristics of plants with remote 
				sensors, vigor can be assessed based on the amount of visible 
				light being absorbed in relation to the amount of near-infrared 
				light being reflected by the plant. The healthier the plant, the 
				greater the difference between the two spectral values.


Crop: 
				Corn
Location: NE Kansas
Acreage: 121.82 


Environmental Impact





Prescription: 

 
				10 gallons/acre (diluted)
				6.6 pints/acre (concentrate) 



Flat rate area:
 
						121.82 acres 



Variable rate area:  
 
						(-) 0.60 acres 




121.22 acres

Herbicide reduction:
1,212.2 gallons (diluted)
				100.0 gallons (concentrate)





Cost Savings Impact



Herbicide cost

$32.27/acre



Flat rate treatment

$3,931.13



Variable rate & 
						services

(-) $506.63



Net cost reduction


						$3,424.50


Potential savings / total acreage
				($3,424.50 / 121.82) =

INPUT COST SAVINGS:
$28.11/acre







After-Sale Service
 

 24 Hours Technical Support
				User friendly English software, user manual and detailer Videos/CD



		Get a "FREE" Quote 

FLY LEGAL


Section 
		333 Exemption and COA Processing















UAV 
					Agriculture Crop Duster Sprayers Helicopter
by Homeland 
					Surveillance & Electronics LLC






















or
								
								click here









							UAV LEASING SOLUTIONS










Search •
					
					About Us •
					
					Mission Statement •
					
					FAA Section 333 & COA Processing •
					
					Find A UAV Dealer •
					
					FAQ 

					Product Photos •
					
					Media and Events

					UAV's For Sale •
					
					From The Desk Of •
					
					In The News •
					
					BLOG  
					 ITAR 
					Policy •
					
					Privacy Policy •
					
					Terms of Service •
					
					Contact Us 


					Free Consultation • 
					
					UAS Dealership Opportunities 



Commercial UAV Applications 
					• 

Our Product Line 
					• 

Platforms 
					• 

Autopilot 
					• 

Communications

					• 

Photo Software 
					• 

Specialty Cameras 
					• 

Camera Packages 
					• 

Product Accessories 
					• 

Products Maintenance

					• 

					UAV Pilot Training School 
					•
					
					UAV Demo Units For Sale •
					
					UAV Financing

					UAV Leasing


We 
adhere strictly 
					to the 


					International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)

www.policeuavdrones.com 
					www.hse-uav.com 
					
					www.commercial-uav.com 


					www.agricultureuavs.com  
					
					www.uavcropdustersprayers.com  
					www.uavhobbyshop.com


Find a 
					HSE UAV Dealer Distributor
					Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
					UAV 
					Dealers & Distributors Inquiries Welcomed




















ITAR Policy 

It is the policy of Homeland Surveillance & Electronics 
		to adhere strictly to all U.S. laws and regulations covering the export, 
		re-export, and import of Defense related articles, technical data, and 
		services. Such laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the 
		Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C.), the Export 
		Administration Regulations (EAR) (administered by the U.S. Department of 
		Commerce), the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. 2778), and the 
		International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 C.F.R.) 
		(Administered by the U.S. Department of State). Further, Homeland 
		Surveillance & Electronics adheres to additional restrictions on exports 
		and re-exports contained in various country-specific regulations 
		administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets 
		Control (OFAC). 
All content subject 
		to change without notice. 
		Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our terms of use & privacy 
		policies.
Copyright 2013 - 2015 © HSE - Unmanned 
		Aerial Vehicles (UAV) All rights reserved.
		Revised:
		04/29/17