url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/330576417_Micro-UAV_Detection_and_Classification_from_RF_Fingerprints_Using_Machine_Learning_Techniques








    






 









































(PDF) Micro-UAV Detection and Classification from RF Fingerprints Using Machine Learning Techniques


We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got itWe value your privacyWe use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.Accept CookiestopSee all ›47 ReferencesSee all ›7 FiguresDownload citationShare  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn RedditDownload full-text PDFMicro-UAV Detection and Classification from RF Fingerprints Using Machine Learning TechniquesPreprint (PDF Available) · January 2019 with 338 ReadsCite this publication Martins Ezuma3.2North Carolina State University Fatih Erden16.15North Carolina State University+ 1 Chethan Kumar Anjinappa2.29North Carolina State University Ozgur Ozdemir18.47North Carolina State UniversityShow more authorsHideAbstractThis paper focuses on the detection and classification of micro-unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) using radio frequency (RF) fingerprints of the signals transmitted from the controller to the micro-UAV. In the detection phase, raw signals are split into frames and transformed into the wavelet domain. A Markov models-based naive Bayes approach is used to check for the presence of a UAV in each frame. In the classification phase, unlike the traditional approaches that rely solely on time-domain signals and corresponding features, the proposed technique uses the energy transient signal. This approach is more robust to noise and can cope with different modulation techniques. First, the normalized energy trajectory is generated from the energy-time-frequency distribution of the raw control signal. Next, the start and end points of the energy transient are detected by searching for the most abrupt changes in the mean of the energy trajectory. Then, a set of statistical features is extracted from the energy transient. Significant features are selected by performing neighborhood component analysis (NCA) to keep the computational cost of the algorithm low. Finally, selected features are fed to several machine learning algorithms for classification. The algorithms are evaluated experimentally using a database containing 100 RF signals from each of 14 different UAV controllers. The signals are recorded wirelessly using a high-frequency oscilloscope. The data set is randomly partitioned into training and test sets for validation with the ratio 4:1. Ten Monte Carlo simulations are run and results are averaged to assess the performance of the methods. All the micro-UAVs are detected correctly and an average accuracy of 96.3% is achieved using the k-nearest neighbor (kNN) classification. Proposed methods are also tested for different signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) levels and results are reported.Discover the world's research15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for free Figures - uploaded by Chethan Kumar AnjinappaAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Chethan Kumar AnjinappaContent may be subject to copyright. Spectrogram of the RF signal shown in Fig. 5.…  Energy trajectory computed from the spectrogram in Fig. 7.…  +4NCA results showing the relative importance of the statistical features.… Download full-text PDFContent uploaded by Chethan Kumar AnjinappaAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Chethan Kumar Anjinappa on Jan 27, 2019 Content may be subject to copyright. 





Micro-UAV Detection and Classiﬁcation from RFFingerprints Using Machine Learning TechniquesMartins Ezuma, Fatih Erden, Chethan Kumar Anjinappa, Ozgur Ozdemir, and Ismail GuvencDepartment of ECENorth Carolina State UniversityRaleigh, NC 27606{mcezuma,ferden,canjina,oozdemi,iguvenc}@ncsu.eduAbstract—This paper focuses on the detection and classiﬁcationof micro-unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) using radio frequency(RF) ﬁngerprints of the signals transmitted from the controllerto the micro-UAV. In the detection phase, raw signals are splitinto frames and transformed into the wavelet domain to removethe bias in the signals and reduce the size of data to be processed.A naive Bayes approach, which is based on Markov modelsgenerated separately for UAV and non-UAV classes, is used tocheck for the presence of a UAV in each frame. In the classiﬁca-tion phase, unlike the traditional approaches that rely solely ontime-domain signals and corresponding features, the proposedtechnique uses the energy transient signal. This approach ismore robust to noise and can cope with different modulationtechniques. First, the normalized energy trajectory is generatedfrom the energy-time-frequency distribution of the raw controlsignal. Next, the start and end points of the energy transientare detected by searching for the most abrupt changes in themean of the energy trajectory. Then, a set of statistical featuresis extracted from the energy transient. Signiﬁcant features areselected by performing neighborhood component analysis (NCA)to keep the computational cost of the algorithm low. Finally,selected features are fed to several machine learning algorithmsfor classiﬁcation. The algorithms are evaluated experimentallyusing a database containing 100 RF signals from each of 14different UAV controllers. The signals are recorded wirelesslyusing a high-frequency oscilloscope. The data set is randomlypartitioned into training and test sets for validation with theratio 4:1. Ten Monte Carlo simulations are run and results areaveraged to assess the performance of the methods. All the micro-UAVs are detected correctly and an average accuracy of 96.3%is achieved using the k-nearest neighbor (kNN) classiﬁcation.Proposed methods are also tested for different signal-to-noiseratio (SNR) levels and results are reported.I. INTRODUCTIONIn recent years, non-military micro-unmanned aerial vehi-cles (micro-UAVs) have proliferated conspicuously. Besidesthe recreational use by hobbyists, there is a growing interestin the use of micro-UAVs for commercial applications. Oneof the major areas of use is in precision agriculture, wheremicro-UAVs make it easy to map and survey farmlandsfor crop variability and phenology, crop dusting/spraying forweed and pest control, irrigation management, and livestockmonitoring [1]. Other commercial applications of micro-UAVsinclude infrastructure health monitoring, package delivery,media & entertainment, and ad hoc access point Internetconnectivity [2]–[5]. Due to the potential beneﬁts of micro-UAVs, there is a collaborative plan by the Federal AviationAdministration (FAA) and National Aeronautics and SpaceAdministration (NASA) to integrate commercial micro-UAVsinto the national airspace (NAS) [6].Even though so many beneﬁcial civilian applications ofmicro-UAVs abound, there is an associated risk to the publicsafety. In recent times, there have been reports of micro-UAVsviolating public privacy and the security of sensitive facilitiessuch as nuclear power plants and airports [7]. In 2018, adrone was intentionally crashed into a nuclear power plant inFrance [8]. According to the FAA, reports of safety-incidentsinvolving drones now average about 250 a month [9]. Someof these events involve micro-UAVs crashing into commercialairplanes, military helicopters, the White House, and outdoorpublic events. Apparently, most of these events occur whendrone pilots intentionally violate no-ﬂy-zone restrictions. Inaddition, micro-UAVs have been exploited by terror groupsfor the placement of improvised explosive devices (IED)and chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives(CBRNE) [10]. Recently, two armed commercial drones car-rying powerful explosives detonated close to the Venezuelanpresident during an outdoor event [11]. Therefore, there isan urgent need to secure the national airspace against suchunconventional threats. This can be achieved by accuratelydetecting and identifying non-compliant micro-UAVs.Several techniques have been proposed for micro-UAVdetection and classiﬁcation so far. Conventional radar-basedtechniques, which are widely deployed for detecting andidentifying aircrafts, mostly fail to detect micro-UAVs [12].Alternative techniques like sound and video-based detectionare only suitable for short-range scenarios due to ambientnoise [13]. Some of these challenges can be addressed by radiofrequency (RF) ﬁngerprints-based techniques. However, thecurrent trend on RF ﬁngerprint classiﬁcation of micro-UAVsfocuses mostly on time-domain techniques which are not veryeffective. This is because time domain techniques are basedon the assumption that there is an abrupt change at the startpoint of the signal. However, this assumption is not alwaystrue when the transition between the transient and noise ismore gradual [14]. Consequently, time domain techniques maydelay the detection of the transient of the signal. In worst casescenario, this may increase the probability of missed targetdetection at low signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR).This paper is motivated by the need to address the afore-mentioned challenges. Due to the problems associated with1arXiv:1901.07703v1  [eess.SP]  23 Jan 2019




the use of the time-domain transient analysis, a new approachfor the micro-UAV classiﬁcation is proposed in this paper. Inthis approach, the time-domain signal is ﬁrst transformed intothe energy-time-frequency domain and the energy trajectory iscomputed. Then, a set of statistical features is extracted fromthe energy transient instead of the time-domain transient. Thedimensionality of the feature set is reduced using neighbor-hood component analysis (NCA) and the signiﬁcant featuresare classiﬁed using several machine learning algorithms. It isshown that the discriminating features can still be extractedeven when the time-domain signal waveform is distorted bynoise. Moreover, a micro-UAV detection method is describedin this paper. RF signals are transformed into the waveletdomain to remove the bias and reduce the size of the data.Then, the naive Bayes approach is used based on the Markovmodels to differentiate between the noise and micro-UAVsignals.The paper is organized as follows. Section II gives anoverview of the state-of-the-art techniques for micro-UAV de-tection and classiﬁcation; Section III provides a description ofthe process model for the approach; Section IV and Section Vdescribes the proposed detection and classiﬁcation techniquesrespectively; Section VI describes the experimental setup andpresents the results; and Section VII provides the concludingremarks.II. RELATED WORKExisting techniques for micro-UAV detection and classiﬁ-cation can be categorized under four headings, namely, radar-based, vision-based, sound-based, and RF ﬁngerprinting.A. Radar-based TechniquesMicro-UAV detection using radars have been widely stud-ied. Radars transmit electromagnetic signals which interactwith the target, in particular, the micro-UAVs. This interactioncauses a shift in the carrier frequency of the received signal dueto the Doppler effect. In addition to the main Doppler shift, ifthe target has vibrating or rotating structures, e.g., propellers,vibrating platforms, and engines, these micro-motions willinduce time-varying frequency modulation on the receivedsignal [15]. These additional frequency modulations, called themicro-Doppler effect, generate side-bands (or spectral lines)around the main Doppler frequency shift. Analysis of themicro-Doppler signature may review some of the dynamiccharacteristic of the target that can be used for target detectionand identiﬁcation [16], [17].In [18], the micro-Doppler signature of a quad-copter iscompared with that of a walking human. The study concludesthat the unique micro-Doppler signature of the micro-UAVsare useful for the design of an automatic target recognition(ATR) system. These unique features can be used to dis-tinguish micro-UAVs from ﬁxed-wing airplanes, helicopter,and birds. In [19], micro-UAVs and small birds are classiﬁedbased on the eigenpairs extracted from the decomposition oftheir micro-Doppler signatures. Larger birds can be readilyrecognized and discriminated from small-UAVs because of thefrequency modulation induced by their ﬂapping wings [20],[21]. These ﬂapping-induced micro-Doppler frequencies ap-pear at a much lower frequency-band as compared to themicro-Doppler frequencies induced by the rotating propellersof the micro-UAVs. Sparsity-based techniques can also beused to extract features from radar micro-Doppler signatures.In [22], [23], orthogonal matching pursuit (OMP), a sparse-coding based dictionary learning algorithm, is used to extractfeatures from the radar micro-Doppler signatures for automatictarget recognition.Although radar-based detection has been one of the main-stream approaches to the problem, their performance, i.e.,maximum detectable range, is highly limited if the targethas a low radar cross-section [24]. This also explains whystealth aircrafts, designed to avoid radar detection, must havevery low radar cross section (RCS). A conventional aircraft(without stealth coating) has an average RCS value of 426.58m2(26.3 dBsm) at lateral incidence to a millimeter waveradar signal [25]. Therefore, in order to evade detection,military aircrafts are coated with radiation-absorbent materials(RAM) to reduce the RCS. On the other hand, experimentalmeasurements at millimeter wave frequencies show that manycommercially available micro-UAVs have an average RCSvalue of about 0.02 m2(-16.98 dBsm) [26]–[28]. This verylow RCS value is due to the shape and design material ofthese micro-UAVs. Therefore, many micro-UAVs are naturallystealth to conventional radars [24]. This explains the failure ofthe United States White House’s surveillance radar to detecta micro-UAV ﬂying across the fence and crash-landing intothe lawn [12]. This challenge with radar-based detection hasmotivated researchers to investigate other detection techniquesfor micro-UAVs.B. Vision-based TechniquesIn [29], a computer vision-based technique is describedfor micro-UAVs detection. This approach uses high resolutioncameras to capture micro-UAVs in different background en-vironments. Several features such as Haar-like, histogram ofgradients (HOG), and local binary patterns (LBP) are extractedfrom the images. These features are fed into cascades ofboosted classiﬁers for target detection. The cascaded boostedclassiﬁers perform detection at multi-stage sequences withincreasing complexity. In this system, only test sets that passthe previous stage are allowed into the next stage.Deep learning networks have also been explored for themicro-UAV detection problem. Usually, deep learning tech-niques do not rely on the human crafted features for targetdetection. They autonomously learn the optimal features fromthe captured micro-UAV images. In [30], [31], convolutionneural networks (CNN) are investigated for micro-UAV detec-tion. These deep learning based techniques show fairly goodperformance. However, training CNN networks requires hugeamount of data making real-time application computationallyexpensive.In [32], [33], the authors described a computer-vision ap-proach based on a generic Fourier descriptor (GFD). The tech-nique uses speeded-up robust features (SURF) for keypointdetection on grayscale images of micro-UAVs. The keypoints2



of interest are shape-descriptors of the micro-UAVs. In com-parison to CNN, this method provides much faster detectionfor micro-UAVs. However, all vision-based techniques sufferfrom one common problem. The performance of the camerasensors depends on the ambient condition such as lighting.In addition, vision-based detection of micro-UAVs may notperform well if the surveyed area is large.C. Sound-based TechniquesAcoustic or sound-based techniques use arrays of micro-phones to extract the unique acoustic signature of micro-UAVs.Typically, micro-UAVs produce hissing or buzz-like soundsin frequencies ranging from 400 Hz to 8 kHz [34]. Thisunique acoustic signature is due to the brushless DC motor ofmicro-UAVs. Using different audio analysis techniques, micro-UAVs can be separated from the background noise. In [35],micro-UAV localization and tracking using an acoustic array isdescribed. The micro-UAVs are localized based on estimationof the time difference of arrival (TDOA) of the received audiosignals. In order to accurately compute TDOA, the authorsproposed an algorithm based on the Gauss priori probabilitydensity function (GPDF).In [36], time and frequency domain acoustic features areextracted from micro-UAV audio recordings. These featuresare used to train a multi-class support vector machine (SVM)for micro-UAV identiﬁcation. In [37], the authors investigatethe effectiveness of Gaussian mixture model (GMM) and deeplearning algorithms for drone sound detection. The problem,modeled as a binary classiﬁcation problem, is based on thedetection of sound events. The study concludes that a longshort-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network (RNN)shows the best micro-UAV sound detection performance. In[38], micro-UAV detection using hybrid advanced acousticcameras is described. The system comprises 120 elementsmicrophone array and a video camera. The microphones arespherically arranged. Thus, allowing the system to simulta-neously detect multiple micro-UAVs in 2D (angular position)or 3D dimensions. The angular direction of a micro-UAV isestimated using the phase of the acquired audio signals fromthe micro-UAVs.In [39], a similar hybrid audio-assisted detection system formicro-UAVs is described. The system consists of thirty high-deﬁnition cameras and three microphones. In order to performmicro-UAV detection, HOG features are extracted from imagedata and mel-frequency cepstral coefﬁcients (MFCCs) featuresfrom the audio data. An SVM is trained to perform detectionon the test data set. The fundamental challenge of the audio-based systems is the practical range of the commercial micro-phones. Most of them have a range of 25-30 ft [13] and arehighly sensitive to environmental noise.D. RF ﬁngerprintingRF ﬁngerprint-based detection relies on the characteristicsof the RF signals of the micro-UAV controllers. Experimentalinvestigations show that the micro-UAV controllers have aunique RF signature due to the circuitry design and modulationtechniques employed. Therefore, RF ﬁngerprint analysis canhelp detect and classify micro-UAVs. Unlike the radar-basedtechniques, the RF sensing device/receiver is a passive listenerand does not transmit any signal. This makes RF ﬁngerprint-based detection energy efﬁcient. In addition, the challenge ofdetecting micro-UAVs (with extremely low RCSs) is solvedsince all that is required is to intercept the transmit signalfrom the micro-UAV controller. The range problem associatedwith the vision and acoustic-based techniques can be solvedby using high-gain receiver antennas together with a highlysensitive receiver system to listen for the micro-UAV controllersignals. The issue of environmental noise can be suppressedby employing several de-noising techniques, e.g., waveletdecomposition and band pass ﬁltering. These advantages makeRF ﬁngerprint detection techniques a promising solution.In [40], GMMs are to detect the transient start points ofsignals transmitted by a micro-UAV controller. This time-domain technique uses the expectation maximization (EM)algorithm for estimating the detection threshold. However,EM algorithm is not guaranteed to converge to a globaloptimal. Furthermore, in order to justify the use of GMM tomodel the RF signal sampled with a high frequency, manyGaussian components are needed. This will deﬁnitely increasethe computational cost of the detection algorithm. In [41],RF hash ﬁngerprints are used to detect the micro-UAVs. TheRF hash ﬁngerprints are generated by calculating the distancebetween peak locations in the envelope of the time-domain RFsignal. The extracted ﬁngerprints are used to train a distance-based support vector data description (SVDD) algorithm fortarget detection. However, since most micro-UAV controllersignals have similar time-domain waveforms with randomspikes, time domain peak classiﬁcation is not very effective.III. UAV DETECTION/CLASSIFICATION SCENARIOAND ASSUMPTIONSFig.1 shows the system setup for RF-based UAV detectionand identiﬁcation. The detection system is an RF sensingdevice which can capture signals from both the UAV and itscontroller. In addition, the RF receiver also captures othersignals in the environment which co-exist with the UAVtransmissions in the same frequency band. Our overall goalin this paper is to develop an algorithm which is capable ofdetecting a micro-UAV and, if present, identifying the type ofit based on the extracted RF ﬁngerprint of the UAV controllersignal. Thus, the process is divided into two major tasks,namely, the detection and classiﬁcation. The detection stagemakes a decision of whether the captured RF signal belongs toa micro-UAV or the noise signal. If a micro-UAV is detected,then the classiﬁcation stage is invoked to make a decisionregarding the type of the micro-UAV. Fig. 2 is a ﬂowchartthat provides a graphical description of the overall processmodel that involves UAV detection and classiﬁcation.The starting point for target classiﬁcation is the target de-tection. This is achieved by continuously sensing the 2.4 GHzchannel for the presence of transmissions by a non cooperativeUAV controller. Experimentally, it was observed that it ismuch effective to detect the signal from the UAV controlleras against the transmission from the UAV itself because the3



Keysight DSOS604A High-Definition Oscilloscope: 6 GHz, 4 Analog ChannelsUAVUAV remote controllerCaptured waveform from UAV remote controllerAntenna Fig. 1. System setup for RF-based UAV detection.DetectionNoRF signal dataYesSpectrogramEnergy trajectoryNCAUAV1 UAV2 UAV3...UAVnClassifierFig. 2. Flowchart of the classiﬁcation algorithm.former has higher energy than the latter. For this work wefocus exclusively on the detection/classiﬁcation of the RFsignal from the controller; RF signal detection/classiﬁcationfrom the UAV is left as a future work.Contrary to the classical energy detector system, whichsets a single ﬁxed threshold for target detection, the proposedsystem is based on state transition probabilities. This approachreduces the probability of false alarm due to random burst inthe background noise. Moreover, this approach is motivated bythe fact that actual RF signal waveforms from UAV controllerscan be considered as a time-varying spectral vector sequenceswith multiple transients.Fig. 3 shows typical RF signal waveforms captured fromsix different micro-UAV controllers. These waveforms lookdistinct with well deﬁned transitions. Therefore, Markov basedmodels can be effectively used to detect the UAV controllersignal from the background noise. In this work, the back-ground noise is modelled as an additive white Gaussian noise.According to [42], the maximum intercept range of the RFsensing system can be modelled as:RImax =λ4πrPtGtGILδI,(1)where λ,Ptand Gtrepresents the transmit wavelength, trans-mit power and antenna gain of the UAV controller respectively,GIis the antenna gain of the RF receiver (intercept) system,Lis the combined losses between the controller and receiver(transmission and system losses) and δIis the sensitivity of thereceiver. Moreover, the RF receiver sensitivity, δI, is deﬁnedas:δI=kToF B ρi,(2)where k= 1.38×10−23 Joules/k is Boltzmann constant, To=290 k is the standard noise temperature, Fis the noise factor ofthe receiver, Bis the bandwidth of the receiver and ρiis theSNR at the input of the receiver. In practice, the maximumrange can be increased by using directional antenna for farﬁeld detection.The next task after signal detection is the classiﬁcation pro-cess. This is achieved by using machine learning algorithms.First, the energy trajectory features of the captured RF signalwaveform is extracted from the spectrogram representationof the signal. Thereafter, feature selection is then performedusing Neighborhood component analysis (NCA). The selectedfeatures are used for training and testing of the machinelearning models used for the classiﬁcation.4



In the following, ﬁrst, Section IV will provide a detaileddescription of the proposed RF-based UAV detection approach,while Section V will focus on the UAV classiﬁcation problem.IV. UAV DETECTION USING RF SIGNALSFirst step in Fig. 2 is capturing RF signal data and thedetection of the presence of a UAV signal in the data. Inour experiments, the RF signals to be detected are capturedfrom different micro-UAV controllers using a high-frequencyoscilloscope. The details of the experimental setup and datacollection are given in Section VI. Each RF signal is recordedsuch that it is a vector of the same size.Fig. 3 shows the typical RF signals received from sixdifferent micro-UAV controllers. As it is clear from the ﬁgure,each micro-UAV signal has a different waveform which canbe attributed to the unique characteristics of the transmittercircuits, modulation techniques, and the packet structure. Thismakes it unreliable to use simple thresholding techniques todetect micro-UAVs especially in noisy environments. It isalso difﬁcult to detect the time-domain transient to obtain theﬁngerprint of the corresponding control signal because the endpoint of the transient is not clear unless there is an overshootin the signal.In order to perform detection, all non-UAV signals areclassiﬁed as noise. This includes background noise in thereceiver itself and interference from all other wireless sourcessuch as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and microwave oven which operatein same frequency band. Thus, the overall goal of the detectionalgorithm is to classify the received signals as belonging tothe UAV or non-UAV class. However, due to the lack of datafor the non-UAV class at this point of a time, we restrictour discussion to the classiﬁcation of UAV and noise signals,albeit, the proposed method is developed for a more generalcase. Other wireless sources will be explored in our futurework. Therefore, the detection problem boils down to detectingthe presence/absence of a UAV based on the received RFsignals in a noisy environment.A pre-processing process is applied to the RF signals beforeproceeding with the detection algorithm. The RF signals aretransformed into the wavelet domain using a pre-deﬁnedwavelet tree. The rationale behind the adapted technique [43]is that it helps in detecting the possible RF signals even inthe low SNR regime. This leads to a better detection abilitywhich is a necessity for applications like micro-UAV threatdetection.A. Pre-processing StepThe SNR of the received RF signal varies with the distanceand transmitted power of the wireless source. Higher SNRscan be achieved in multiple ways [43], [44]. One such wayis the use of the wavelet transform for removing the bias inthe received RF signals and de-noising up to a certain extent.[43], [45], [46]. The use of wavelets provides the two-foldadvantage compared to the traditional time domain and Fourierdomain analysis [47]. One is the improvement in the SNR(de-noising) and other in the data compression without lossof information. The former aspect is important to improvethe detection capability. The latter aspect is important forlow complexity system design which result in faster detectionalgorithms.In this study, a three-stage wavelet decomposition is used asshown in Fig. 4. Low-pass g[n]and high-pass h[n]ﬁlters ofthe Haar transform are chosen due to their simplicity. Eachﬁlter is followed by a down sampler. Wavelet coefﬁcientsobtained after the third level are considered as inputs tothe detection algorithm both for training and testing the RFsignals. An example of the RF signal received from the micro-UAV controller of DJI Matrice 100 and the correspondingwavelet transformed signal is shown in Fig. 5. It is clear fromthe ﬁgure that the wavelet transform removes the bias andreduces the number of samples while preserving the structureassociated with the original raw signal.B. Bayesian Decision MakingWe use a Bayesian approach for the decision makingprocess. To state the general problem, let C∈ {0,1}be anindex denoting the class of the measured RF signal y. Wheny∈UAV class then C= 1; otherwise C= 0 . Let yTbea vector containing the transformed RF signal y. Then, theposterior probability of the UAV class given yTisP(C= 1|yT) = P(yT|C= 1)P(C= 1)P(yT),(3)where P(yT|C= 1) is the likelihood function conditionedon C= 1,P(C= 1) is the prior probability of UAV class,and P(yT)is the evidence. A similar expression holds forP(C= 0|yT). In terms of posterior probabilities, we decideC= 1, ifP(C= 1|yT)≥P(C= 0|yT).(4)If we assume the number of samples from each of the classesin the training set are equal, the prior probabilities of the UAVand noise class become equal. Thus, the decision is favoredto C= 1, if:P(yT|C= 1) ≥P(yT|C= 0).(5)While this simpliﬁes the problem of making a decision, thereis still the problem of computing the likelihood P(yT|C={0,1}). This calculation is central to any Bayes decision prob-lem because it reﬂects the interdependence of the classes ofnature. In order to capture the dependency between the states,we incorporate the method discussed in the next subsection.We will get back to the calculation of the likelihood after weintroduce the concept of states.A close inspection of the collected data revealed that most ofthe UAV signals are differently structured (see Fig. 3). This istrue for signals from other wireless sources as well. However,the same cannot be said about the noise data. That is, oftenthe UAV data changes smoothly resulting in consecutive statesof the signal that are not statistically independent. This isparticularly useful when the SNR is low because at low SNRsthe measured signal looks like a random noise.In order to exploit the dependency between the adjacentstates, we deﬁne 3-state Markov models for each class. Wedeﬁne two thresholds T1and T2based on the amplitude of the5


Load moreCitations (0)References (47)This research hasn't been cited in any other publications.Micro-UAV Detection with a Low-Grazing Angle Millimeter Wave RadarArticleFull-text availableFeb 2019 Martins Ezuma Ozgur Ozdemir Chethan Kumar Anjinappa Ismail GuvencViewDrone Detection and RCS Measurements with Ubiquitous RadarConference PaperAug 2018 Álvaro Duque de Quevedo Fernando Ibañez Urzaiz J. Gismero Alberto AsensioViewA Surveillance System for Drone Localization and Tracking Using Acoustic ArraysConference PaperFull-text availableJul 2018Xianyu Chang Chaoqun Yang Junfeng Wu Zhiguo ShiThe wide proliferation of drones has posed great threats to personal privacy and public security, which makes it urgent to monitor the drones in the sensitive areas. Drone surveillance using acoustic arrays, as a promising method, could localize and track the drones effectively. In this paper, we develop a systematic method for drone localization and tracking by using acoustic arrays. Specifically, we develop a time difference of arrival (TDOA) estimation algorithm based on Gauss priori probability density function to overcome the multipath effect and the low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and design a localization method by making full use of the TDOA estimation results, followed by tracking the drone by Kalman filter. Finally, field experiments are carried out to verify the effectiveness and performance of the proposed methods. The results show that they can achieve good performance in drone localization and tracking.ViewShow abstractUsing Shape Descriptors for UAV DetectionArticleJan 2018Eren Unlu Emmanuel Zenou Nicolas RiviereViewAutonomous UAVs for Structural Health Monitoring Using Deep Learning and an Ultrasonic Beacon System with Geo-TaggingArticleFull-text availableMay 2018Comput Aided Civ Infrastruct Eng Dongho Kang Young-Jin ChaVisual inspection has traditionally been used for structural health monitoring. However, assessments conducted by trained inspectors or using contact sensors on structures for monitoring are costly and inefficient because of the number of inspectors and sensors required. To date, data acquisition using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) equipped with cameras has become popular, but UAVs require skilled pilots or a global positioning system (GPS) for autonomous flight. Unfortunately, GPS cannot be used by a UAV for autonomous flight near some parts of certain structures (e.g., beneath a bridge), but these are the critical locations that should be inspected to monitor and maintain structural health. To address this difficulty, this article proposes an autonomous UAV method using ultrasonic beacons to replace the role of GPS, a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) for damage detection, and a geo‐tagging method for the localization of damage. Concrete cracks, as an example of structural damage, were successfully detected with 97.7% specificity and 91.9% sensitivity, by processing video data collected from an autonomous UAV.ViewShow abstractUnauthorized Amateur UAV Detection Based on WiFi Statistical Fingerprint AnalysisArticleFull-text availableApr 2018IEEE COMMUN MAG Igor BisioChiara GaribottoFabio Lavagetto Sandro ZappatoreAmateur drones are enjoying great popularity in recent years due to the wide commercial diffusion of small, rather low-cost devices. More and more user-friendly, easy-to-pilot aerial and terrestrial drones are available off the shelf, and people can even remotely pilot them using their smartphones. This situation brings up the problem of keeping unauthorized drones away from private or sensitive areas, where they can represent a personal or public threat. With this motivation, after a survey of the existing solutions, we propose a WiFi-based approach aimed at detecting nearby aerial or terrestrial devices by performing statistical fingerprint analysis on wireless traffic. This novel detection technique, tested in a variety of real-life scenarios, proved able to efficiently detect and identify intruder drones in all the considered experimental setups, making it a promising unmanned aerial vehicle detection approach in the framework of amateur drone surveillance.ViewShow abstractMultiple Drone-Cell Deployment Analyses and Optimization in Drone Assisted Radio Access NetworksArticleFeb 2018Weisen Shi Junling Li Wenchao Xu Xuemin Sherman ShenIn this paper, we propose a Drone Assisted Radio Access Networks (DA-RAN) architecture in which drone-cells are leveraged to relay data between base stations and users. Based on the state-of-the-art Drone-to-User (D2U) and Droneto- BS (D2B) channel models, we first analyze the user coverage and the D2B backhaul connection features of drone-cells. We then formulate the 3D drone-cell deployment problem with the objective of maximizing the user coverage while maintaining D2B link qualities, for a given number of drone cells being deployed. To solve the problem, the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm is leveraged for its low computational cost and unique features suiting the spatial deployment of drone-cells. We propose a per-Drone Iterated PSO (DI-PSO) algorithm that optimizes drone-cell deployments for different drone-cell numbers, and prevents the drawbacks of the pure PSO based algorithm derived from related works. Simulations show that the DI-PSO algorithm can achieve higher coverage ratio with less complexity comparing to the pure PSO based algorithm.ViewShow abstractGeneric Fourier Descriptors for Autonomous UAV DetectionConference PaperJan 2018Eren Unlu Emmanuel Zenou Nicolas RiviereViewMedical delivery drones take flight in east africaArticleJan 2018IEEE SPECTRUMEvan AckermanEliza StricklandWhile Amazon and United Parcel Service pour considerable resources into finding ways of using drones to deliver such things as shoes and dog treats, Zipline has been saving lives in Rwanda since October 2016 with drones that deliver blood. Zipline's autonomous fixedwing drones now form an integral part of Rwanda's medical-supply infrastructure, transporting blood products from a central distribution center to hospitals across the country. And in 2018, Zipline's East African operations will expand to include Tanzania, a much larger country. “Rwanda has shown such remarkable success that a lot of other countries want to follow in its footsteps. The problems we're solving in Rwanda aren't Rwanda problems, they're global problems-rural health care is a challenge everywhere”.ViewShow abstractEmpirical study of drone sound detection in real-life environment with deep neural networksConference PaperAug 2017 Sungho JeonJong-Woo ShinYoung-Jun LeeHae-Yong YangViewShow moreJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for freeRecommendationsDiscover more publications, questions and projects in DermatoglyphicsProjectTowards UAV Assisted 5G Public Safety Networks Abhaykumar Kumbhar Ismail GuvencInvestigate the role of UAVs and 5G in  public safety networks  View projectProjectHandover Performance Analysis and Enhancement Karthik Vasudeva Meryem Simsek David Lopez-Perez[...]Mehdi BennisView projectProjectNon-Orthogonal multiple access for drone based communication networks Nadisanka Rupasinghe Ismail Guvenc Yavuz Yapici[...]Ismail GuevencView projectProjectPerformance Optimization of Network Protocols for IEEE 802.11 s-Based Smart Grid Communications Nico Saputro Kemal Akkaya Samet Tonyalı[...]Ali I. YurekliThe transformation of the legacy electric grid to Smart Grid (SG) poses numerous challenges in the design and development of an efficient SG communications network. While there has been an increasi ng interest in identifying the SG communications network and possible SG applications, specific research challenges at the network protocols have not been elaborated yet. This project revisited each layer of a TCP/IP protocol stack which basically was designed for a wired network and optimized their performance in IEEE 802.11s-based Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) communications network against the following challenges: security and privacy, AMI data explosion, periodic simultaneous data reporting scheduling, poor Transport Control Protocol (TCP) performance, Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) broadcast, and network interoperability. ... [more]View projectArticleFull-text availableMicro-UAV Detection with a Low-Grazing Angle Millimeter Wave RadarFebruary 2019 Martins Ezuma Ozgur Ozdemir Chethan Kumar Anjinappa[...] Ismail GuvencView full-textPreprintFull-text availableMicro-UAV Detection with a Low-Grazing Angle Millimeter Wave RadarFebruary 2019 Martins Ezuma Ozgur Ozdemir Chethan Kumar Anjinappa[...] Ismail GuvencMillimeter wave radars are popularly used in last-mile radar-based defense systems. Detection of low-altitude airborne target using these radars at low-grazing angles is an important problem in the field of electronic warfare, which becomes challenging due to the significant effects of clutters in the terrain. This paper provides both experimental and analytical investigation of micro unmanned ... [Show full abstract] aerial vehicle (UAV) detection in a rocky terrain using a low grazing angle, surface-sited 24 GHz dual polarized frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW) radar. The radar backscatter signal from the UAV is polluted by land clutters which is modeled using a uniform Weibull distribution. A constant false alarm rate (CFAR) detector which employs adaptive thresholding is designed to detect the UAV in the rich clutter background. In order to further enhance the discrimination of the UAV from the clutter, the micro-Doppler signature of the rotating propellers and bulk trajectory of the UAV are extracted and plotted in the time-frequency domain.View full-textConference PaperFull-text availableMicro-UAV Detection with a Low-Grazing Angle Millimeter Wave RadarFebruary 2019 Martins Ezuma Ozgur Ozdemir Chethan Kumar Anjinappa[...] Ismail GuvencMillimeter wave radars are popularly used in last-mile radar-based defense systems. Detection of low-altitude airborne target using these radars at low-grazing angles is an important problem in the field of electronic warfare, which becomes challenging due to the significant effects of clutters in the terrain. This paper provides both experimental and analytical investigation of micro unmanned ... [Show full abstract] aerial vehicle (UAV) detection in a rocky terrain using a low grazing angle, surface-sited 24 GHz dual polarized frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW) radar. The radar backscatter signal from the UAV is polluted by land clutters which is modeled using a uniform Weibull distribution. A constant false alarm rate (CFAR) detector which employs adaptive thresholding is designed to detect the UAV in the rich clutter background. In order to further enhance the discrimination of the UAV from the clutter, the micro-Doppler signature of the rotating propellers and bulk trajectory of the UAV are extracted and plotted in the time-frequency domain.View full-textConference PaperFull-text availableUAV Passive Acoustic DetectionOctober 2018 Alexander Sedunov Hady Salloum Alexander Sutin Nikolay SedunovView full-textDiscover moreLast Updated: 27 Jan 2019Download citationWhat type of file do you want? RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download? Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadInterested in research on Dermatoglyphics?Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest research from leading experts in Dermatoglyphics and many other scientific topics.Join for freeorDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back! Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account? Sign upAboutNewsCompanyCareersSupportHelp centerFAQBusiness solutionsRecruitingAdvertising© ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.ImprintTermsPrivacy