url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/259471193_Introducing_a_low-cost_mini-UAV_for_thermal-and_multispectral-imaging








    






 












































(PDF) Introducing a low-cost mini-UAV for thermal-and multispectral-imaging


We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got itWe value your privacyWe use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.Accept CookiestopSee all ›29 CitationsSee all ›11 ReferencesSee all ›5 FiguresDownload citationShare  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn RedditDownload full-text PDFIntroducing a low-cost mini-UAV for thermal-and multispectral-imagingArticle (PDF Available) · July 2012 with 758 ReadsDOI: 10.5194/isprsarchives-XXXIX-B1-345-2012  Cite this publication Juliane Bendig12.81University of Tasmania Andreas Bolten21.55University of Cologne Georg BartehAbstractThe trend to minimize electronic devices also accounts for Unmanned Airborne Vehicles (UAVs) as well as for sensor technologies and imaging devices. Consequently, it is not surprising that UAVs are already part of our daily life and the current pace of development will increase civil applications. A well known and already wide spread example is the so called flying video game based on Parrot's AR.Drone which is remotely controlled by an iPod, iPhone, or iPad (http://ardrone.parrot.com). The latter can be considered as a low-weight and low-cost Mini-UAV. In this contribution a Mini-UAV is considered to weigh less than 5 kg and is being able to carry 0.2 kg to 1.5 kg of sensor payload. While up to now Mini-UAVs like Parrot's AR.Drone are mainly equipped with RGB cameras for videotaping or imaging, the development of such carriage systems clearly also goes to multi-sensor platforms like the ones introduced for larger UAVs (5 to 20 kg) by Jaakkolla et al. (2010) for forestry applications or by Berni et al. (2009) for agricultural applications. The problem when designing a Mini-UAV for multi-sensor imaging is the limitation of payload of up to 1.5 kg and a total weight of the whole system below 5 kg. Consequently, the Mini-UAV without sensors but including navigation system and GPS sensors must weigh less than 3.5 kg. A Mini-UAV system with these characteristics is HiSystems' MK-Okto (www.mikrokopter.de). Total weight including battery without sensors is less than 2.5 kg. Payload of a MK-Okto is approx. 1 kg and maximum speed is around 30 km/h. The MK-Okto can be operated up to a wind speed of less than 19 km/h which corresponds to Beaufort scale number 3 for wind speed. In our study, the MK-Okto is equipped with a handheld low-weight NEC F30IS thermal imaging system. The F30IS which was developed for veterinary applications, covers 8 to 13 μm, weighs only 300 g, and is capturing the temperature range between −20 °C and 100 °C. Flying at a height of 100 m, the camera's image covers an area of approx. 50 by 40 m. The sensor's resolution is 160 x 120 pixel and the field of view is 28° (H) x 21° (V). According to the producer, absolute accuracy for temperature is ±1 °C and the thermal sensitivity is >0.1 K. Additionally, the MK-Okto is equipped with Tetracam's Mini MCA. The Mini MCA in our study is a four band multispectral imaging system. Total weight is 700 g and spectral characteristics can be modified by filters between 400 and 1000 nm. In this study, three bands with a width of 10 nm (green: 550 nm, red: 671 nm, NIR1: 800 nm) and one band of 20 nm width (NIR2: 950 nm) have been used. Even so the MK-Okto is able to carry both sensors at the same time, the imaging systems were used separately for this contribution. First results of a combined thermal- and multispectral MK-Okto campaign in 2011 are presented and evaluated for a sugarbeet field experiment examining pathogens and drought stress.Discover the world's research15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for free Figures - uploaded by Juliane BendigAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Juliane BendigContent may be subject to copyright. Orientation map and sketch of study area; white: treated plots, grey: untreated plots, dashed line: plot batch 2 (see Figure 5)…  Mini-UAV MK-Okto by HiSystems GmbH (HiSystems GmbH, 2012) equipped with NEC F30 IS thermal imaging system…  Tetracam Mini MCA (Tetracam Inc., 2012) multispectral camera equipped with four sensors…  +1NEC F30 IS (NEC Avio Infrared Technologies Co., Ltd., 2012) thermal camera… Content uploaded by Juliane BendigAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Juliane Bendig on Aug 25, 2016 Content may be subject to copyright.Download full-text PDFOther full-text sourcesContent available from Juliane Bendig:57bf763808aeb95224d11568.pdfContent available from CC BY 4.0:Introducing a low-cost mini-UAV for thermal-and multispectral-imaging.pdfAvailable via license: CC BY 4.0Content may be subject to copyright.Other full-text sourcesContent available from Juliane Bendig:57bf763808aeb95224d11568.pdfContent available from CC BY 4.0:Introducing a low-cost mini-UAV for thermal-and multispectral-imaging.pdf 





INTRODUCING A LOW-COST MINI-UAV FOR THERMAL- AND MULTISPECTRAL-IMAGING    J. Bendig a, *, A. Bolten a, G. Bareth a,b  a Institute of Geography (GIS & Remote Sensing Group), University of Cologne, 50923 Cologne, Germany b ICASD - International Center for Agro-Informatics and Sustainable Development (www.icasd.org) (juliane.bendig, andreas.bolten, g.bareth)@uni-koeln.de    KEY WORDS: Agriculture, Sensor, Multisensor, Multispectral, Thermal, Imagery, Small  ABSTRACT:  The trend to minimize electronic devices also accounts for Unmanned Airborne Vehicles (UAVs) as well as for sensor technologies and  imaging devices.  Consequently,  it  is  not surprising  that  UAVs  are  already part  of  our  daily life  and  the  current  pace of development will increase civil  applications. A  well known and  already wide  spread example is  the so  called flying  video game based on Parrot’s AR.Drone which is  remotely controlled by an iPod,  iPhone, or iPad (http://ardrone.parrot.com). The latter can be considered as a low-weight and low-cost Mini-UAV. In this contribution a Mini-UAV is considered to weigh less than 5 kg and is being able to carry 0.2 kg to  1.5 kg of sensor payload. While up to now Mini-UAVs  like  Parrot’s  AR.Drone  are mainly equipped with RGB cameras for videotaping or imaging, the development of such carriage systems clearly also goes to multi-sensor platforms like the ones introduced for larger UAVs (5 to 20 kg) by Jaakkolla et al. (2010) for forestry applications or by Berni et al. (2009) for agricultural applications. The problem when designing a Mini-UAV for multi-sensor imaging is the limitation of payload of up to 1.5 kg and a total  weight of the whole system below 5 kg. Consequently, the Mini-UAV without sensors  but including navigation system  and  GPS sensors  must weigh  less than  3.5 kg. A  Mini-UAV  system  with  these  characteristics  is  HiSystems’  MK-Okto (www.mikrokopter.de). Total weight including battery without sensors is less than 2.5 kg. Payload of a MK-Okto is approx. 1 kg and maximum speed is around 30 km/h. The MK-Okto can be operated up to a wind speed of less than 19 km/h which corresponds to Beaufort scale number 3 for wind speed. In our study, the MK-Okto is equipped with a handheld low-weight NEC F30IS thermal imaging system. The F30IS which was developed for veterinary applications, covers 8 to 13 μm, weighs only 300 g, and is capturing the temperature range between -20 °C and 100 °C. Flying at a height of 100 m, the camera’s image covers an area of approx. 50 by 40 m. The sensor’s resolution is 160 x 120 pixel  and  the  field of view is 28°  (H)  x  21°  (V).  According  to  the  producer,  absolute accuracy for temperature is ±1 °C  and the  thermal sensitivity is  >0.1 K. Additionally, the MK-Okto  is  equipped  with Tetracam’s Mini  MCA.  The  Mini  MCA  in  our  study  is  a  four  band  multispectral  imaging  system.  Total  weight  is  700 g  and  spectral characteristics can be modified by filters between 400 and 1000 nm. In this study, three bands with a width of 10 nm (green: 550 nm, red: 671 nm, NIR1: 800 nm) and one band of 20 nm width (NIR2: 950 nm) have been used. Even so the MK-Okto is able to carry both sensors at the same time, the imaging systems were used separately for this contribution. First results of a combined thermal- and multispectral MK-Okto campaign in 2011 are presented and evaluated for a sugarbeet field experiment examining pathogens and drought stress.     *   Corresponding author. International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, Volume XXXIX-B1, 2012 XXII ISPRS Congress, 25 August – 01 September 2012, Melbourne, Australia345




 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Motivation and Aims In this  study, we  use a point  symmetrical flying  UAV-system offering the advantage and balance of a stable, lightweight, low-cost, and self-manageable device in contrast to large fixed wing or helicopter-based  systems. Because  of technical advances  in the  field of drive  and  control technology  as well  as the  ratio between battery capacity and battery weight the development of UAV-systems is very fast and significant. Nonami et al. (2010) as well as Ollero and Maza (2007) give reviews and summaries on available systems and definitions.   Figure 1. Orientation map and sketch of study area; white: treated plots, grey: untreated plots, dashed line: plot batch 2 (see Figure 5)  1.2 Study Area and Dataset The  study area  is located  in  the city  of Bonn  in  the west  of Germany  (Figure 1).  In  spring  2011  the  Institute  for Agricultural  Plants  and  Resource  Protection  (INRES)-Horticultural Science established an  experiment field  with four different types  of sugar  beet (AT01,  AK02, AR03  and AI04) with  different  resistances  to  plant  diseases.  The  aim  of  the experiment is to determine the response to natural pathogens of the  different  sugar  beet  types  using  non-destructive measurement  techniques.  First  symptoms  appeared  170  days after sowing. A protective and curative fungicide against three common plant diseases was applied to the control sample plants. All  other  horticultural  activities  were  left  unchanged.  Four replications of every sugar beet type of the treated and untreated variant were planted in a randomised order  with a plot size of approximately 30 m².  Ground based  multispectral,  chlorophyll and  fluorescence  measurements  were  carried  out  repeatedly during the growing season starting on day 198 after sowing. On October  13, 2011,  multispectral  and thermal  data of  the  four replicates of the untreated plots were collected by carrying out flights using the UAV-system.   2. METHODS 2.1 Platform The  used  Oktokopter,  MK-Okto  by  HiSystems  GmbH,  is  a symmetrical frameset  composed of  aluminium and  glass  fibre reinforced  plastics (Figure 2). The  eight engines  are equipped with  high performance  propellers.  The electronics  include  an ARM-processor  equipped mainboard,  a  navigation mainboard (NaviCtrl)  with  a  compass  module  and  a  GPS  module (Mikrokopter,  2012).  The  main  Printed  Circuit Board  (PCB) includes high-quality gyroscopes and a pressure sensor. The use of  the  NaviCtrl  with  the  pressure  sensor  and  the  GPS information  enables  the setting  of  pre-defined  waypoints  and altitudes  to  carry  out autonomous  flights.  The electric  power supply  is  obtained  by  a  lithium  polymer  battery  with  up  to 6600 mAh capacity. The  flight duration is around 15  minutes, depending  on  pay  load.  The  flight  control  is  realised  by  a standard  2.4 GHz  transmitter  remote  control.  Additional transmitter channels are used for steering mechanisms and other functions e.g. camera triggering.  Figure 2. Mini-UAV MK-Okto by HiSystems GmbH (HiSystems GmbH, 2012) equipped with NEC F30 IS thermal imaging system International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, Volume XXXIX-B1, 2012 XXII ISPRS Congress, 25 August – 01 September 2012, Melbourne, Australia346



  2.2 .Sensors The  Tetracam  Mini MCA  is  a  lightweight  compact  Multiple Camera Array  (MCA), which consists  of up to  six sensors of 10 BIT data and 1.3 megapixels resolution (Figure 3, Tetracam Inc.,  2012).  The  sensors  are  equipped  with  25 mm  standard spectrometer  filters. The  version  used  for this  study  includes four sensors with spectral values and spectral width of: 1: 550 nm (10 nm) - Green 2: 671 mm (10 nm) - Red 3: 800 mm (10 nm) - Near Infrared 1 4: 950 mm (20 nm) - Near Infrared 2 Every other filter from 450 nm to 1050 nm is possible. The weight  of the system  including batteries is  around 720 g. The  Field of  View image  size of  the  Mini MCA  is 33 m  by 27 m at a distance of 100 m. The recording of the images is time triggered.    Figure 3. Tetracam Mini MCA (Tetracam Inc., 2012) multispectral camera equipped with four sensors  The NEC F30 IS is a thermal imaging system with a weight of 300 g and  a sensor  resolution of 160  by 120 pixels  (Figure 4, NEC Avio Infrared Technologies Co., Ltd., 2012). The Field of View image size of the camera is 50 m by 37,5 m at a distance of  100 m.  The  absolute  accuracy  is  ±1 K  and  the  thermal sensitivity is around 0.1 K. Due to the manual triggering of the camera  we  use an  individually adapted  camera holder  with a mechanical trigger, operated by the remote control of the UAV-system.    Figure 4. NEC F30 IS (NEC Avio Infrared Technologies Co., Ltd., 2012) thermal camera  2.3 Measurement Prior to carrying out the flight, all corners and mid points of the plots were measured using a  differential GPS. The coordinates of  the  mid  points  were  transferred  into  a  waypoint  list determining the flight route of the Oktokopter. Aluminium foil of an area of approximately half a square meter was placed on every corner to use  it as a tie point  in both  the thermal and multispectral images to facilitate georeferencing of the  data. On  the first  flight, the  UAV was  mounted  with the NEC F30  IS thermal imaging system.  For the  second flight it was  equipped  with Tetracam’s  Mini  MCA. During  the  flights several nadir pictures per plot with a size of 18 m by 15 m were recorded at an altitude of 55 m with a constant orientation. For  both  imaging  systems  proprietary  software  is  used  to download and preprocess the datasets. After that, the main part of the data analysis was carried out using Esri’s ArcGIS. Thermal  datasets were  exported  as  ASCII  data and  imported into  ArcMap.  Georeferencing  was  done  by  using  the coordinates of the measured tie points. The RAW multispectral data  was converted  to  MultiTIF  data which  was then  broken down into single TIF files per band. Every single file was then georeferenced using ArcMap.  Combination of  both datasets  in the  GIS  allows  for  comparison  of  the data  to  detect  special characteristics  e.g.  infield  variability.  Furthermore,  NDVI (Meer & de Jong,  2001) was calculated  from the  multispectral data using ArcGIS.   3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 3.1 General The altitude for both flights was 55 m above ground in clear sky conditions.  Thermal  images  with  120  by  160  pixels  and multispectral  images  with  1280  by  1024  pixels  before georeferencing  were  recorded.  Ground  resolution  for  thermal data is 17 cm and 1.4 cm for multispectral data. The size of 60 by 60 cm chosen for the tie points is appropriate. The  GPS  data  has  an  overall  accuracy  of  1 cm  which  is satisfactory  to  ensure  exact  positioning  of  the  UAV-system. Considering  the  resolution  of  the  produced  pictures,  the accuracy of the tie points is also appropriate. Georeferencing of every single file worked well for the thermal data and the green and red channel of the multispectral data. For the  NIR  channels the  reflection  of  the tie  points  produced  a lower  contrast  making  the  georeferencing  more  challenging. The  use  of  an  additional  material  with  different  reflection behavior will be considered for future measurements.  3.2 Multispectral Data and Thermal Data In the following section data of plot batch 2 (see Figure 1) will be presented.    Figure 5. Measured temperature [°C] of different sugar beet types in plot batch 2 (see Figure 1)  Infield variability can be detected both in the multispectral data and the thermal data (Figure 5). The comparison of NDVI and temperature between the different sugar beet types reveals more detailed information (Table 1, Figure 6 and 7): The histogram  of the  calculated NDVI shows  a similar  curve progression  with  four peaks  (0.42-0.46;  0.48-0.54;  0.57-0.64; International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, Volume XXXIX-B1, 2012 XXII ISPRS Congress, 25 August – 01 September 2012, Melbourne, Australia347



 0.69-0.78)  with detectable  differences  between the  sugar beet types. AR03 and AI04 have a similar NDVI distribution  while AT01 has lower frequencies at peaks three and four. AK02 has lower frequencies at peaks one to three compared to the others. Minimum NDVI varies from 0.28 to 0.37 and mean NDVI from 0.66 to 0.67; while Maximum NDVI is 0.78 (Table 1). The analysis  of the  histogram for the  thermal data  allows for detection  of  similar  characteristics  for  AT01  and  AR03 (Figure 7). The peak temperatures of AI04 are located at lower temperatures  (12.0-12.8 °C) compared  to the  other sugar  beet types (12.3-13.2  °C). The curve  progression of  AK02 is more balanced over the whole temperature  spectrum (11.2-15.10 °C) compared to the other samples. Mean temperatures also indicate differences between the samples (12.52-13.03 °C; Table 1).     AT01 AK02 AR03 AI04 Multispectral: NDVI Min 0.28 0.37 0.36 0.30 Max 0.78 0.78 0.78 0.78 Mean 0.66 0.69 0.67 0.67 Standard deviation 0.09 0.07 0.08 0.08 Thermal: Temperature [°C] Min 11.40 11.20 11.40 11.30 Max 15.10 14.70 14.80 14.30 Mean 13.03 12.67 12.85 12.52 Standard deviation 0.59 0.60 0.56 0.52  Table 1. Statistics of different sugar beet types in plot batch 2 (see Figure 1)    Figure 6. Histogram of measured NDVI values of different sugar beet types in plot batch 2 (see Figure 1)    Figure 7. Histogram of measured temperature [°C] of different sugar beet types in plot batch 2 (see Figure 1) 050010001500200025000.250.300.350.400.450.500.550.600.650.700.750.80Frequency of pixel value NDVI AT01AK02AR03AI0402040608010011.211.411.611.812.012.212.412.612.813.013.213.413.613.814.014.214.414.614.815.0Frequency of pixel value Temperature [°C] AT01AK02AR03AI04International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, Volume XXXIX-B1, 2012 XXII ISPRS Congress, 25 August – 01 September 2012, Melbourne, Australia348



 3.3 Suitability of the Platform The results presented above show that the MK-Okto, a low-cost Mini-UAV platform,  is suitable for  the acquisition  of thermal and multispectral images. The georeferencing of tie points in the data and autonomous  flights under standardised conditions e.g. defined waypoints and altitudes ensure the comparability of the data. For  small scale  applications, like  the  experiment  field  in this contribution, the flight time of about 15 minutes is sufficient. Since the platform is built and maintained directly by the user it can be utilised for various sensors, only limited by the pay load of 1 kg.   4. OUTLOOK Future  tasks  will  be  to  validate  the  current  results  with additional measurements. Thus, a multitemporal dataset can be created  in  order  to  enable  further  analysis.  For  this  purpose calibration panels for the multispectral measurements were built and will be used in future flight campaigns (see Laliberte (2011) or Hunt et al. (2011)). In addition, the Lumix GF3 RGB camera, another sensor will be used on the platform, enabling the generation of stereo images. See Aber et al. (2010), Eisenbeiss et  al. (2005) and Eisenbeiss and  Sauerbier (2011)  for  examples  on DEM  generation from stereo images collected by UAV. Furthermore, a combination of the data collected with different ground measurements such as hyper-spectral data or chlorophyll data  is  possible  to  obtain.  This  also  allows  for  additional evaluation of the data collected with the Mini-UAV. The  aim  of  research  is  to  produce  a  multisensoral, multitemporal dataset,  focusing on exploring  the suitability of the Oktokopter as a multi-sensoral platform.   5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors  would like  to thank  the Institute  for Agricultural Plants and  Resource Protection  (INRES)-Horticultural Science of  University  of Bonn  (Prof.  Dr.  Georg  Noga, Dr.  Mauricio Hunsche and Georg Leufen), for providing the experiment field and general cooperation.   6. REFERENCES Aber, J. S., Marzloff, I., Ries, J. B., 2010: Small-Format Aerial Photography.  Principles,  Techniques  and  Gesoscience Applications. Elsevier, Amsterdam.  Berni, J. A. J., Zarco-Tejada, P. J., Suárez, L., Fereres, E., 2009. Thermal  and  Narrowband  Multispectral  Remote  Sensing  for Vegetation  Monitoring  From  an  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicle. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,  47(3), pp. 722-738.  Eisenbeiss,  H.,  Sauerbier,  M.,  2011.  Investigation  of  uav systems and flight modes for photogrammetric applications. The Photogrammetric Record, 26(136), pp. 400-421.  Eisenbeiss,  H., Sauerbier, M.,  Zhang, L.,  Grün A., 2005.  Mit dem  Modellhelikopter  über  Pinchango  Alto.  Géomatique Suisse, 9, pp. 510-515.  HiSystems GmbH, 2012. HiSystems GmbH. http://www.hisystems.de (05 Mar. 2012).  Hunt, E. R., Hively, W. D., McCarty, G. W., Daughtry, C. S. T., Forrestal, P. J., Kratochvil, R. J., Carr, J. L., Allen, N. F., Fox- Rabinovitz, J. R., Miller, Ch. D., 2011. NIR-Green-Blue High-Resolution  Digital  Images  for  Assessment  of  Winter  Cover Crop Biomass. GIScience & Remote Sensing, 48(1), pp. 86-98.  Jaakkola,  A.,  Hyyppä,  J.,  Kukko,  A.,  Yu, X.,  Kaartinen,  H., Lehtomäki, M., Lin, Y., 2010. A low-cost multi-sensoral mobile mapping  system  and  its  feasibility  for  tree  measurements. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 65, pp. 514-522.  Laliberte, A. S., Goforth, M. A., Steele, C. M., Rango, A., 2011. Multispectral Remote Sensing from Unmanned Aircraft: Image Processing Workflows and Applications for Rangeland Environments. Remote Sensing, 3, pp. 2529-2551.  Meer, F. D., de Jong, S. M. (Eds.), 2001. Imaging Spectrometry. Basic  Principles  and  Prospective  Applications.  Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.  Mikrokopter, 2012. NaviCtrl V2.0.  http://www.mikrokopter.de/ucwiki/NaviCtrl_2.0 (28 Feb. 2012).  NEC Avio Infrared Technologies Co., Ltd., 2012. Thermo Shot F30 Series/F20: Specifications.  http://www.nec-avio.co.jp/en/products/ir-thermo/lineup/f30/spec.html (28 Feb. 2012).  Nonami, K., Kendoul, F., Suzuki, S., Wang, W., Nakazawa, D., 2010. Autonomous flying robots. Springer, Tokyo.  Ollero, A.,  Maza, I., 2007:  Multiple heterogeneous  unmanned aerial vehicles. Springer, Berlin.  Tetracam Inc., 2012. MCA Series - High Quality Multi-Spectral Imaging. Mini MCA. http://www.tetracam.com/mca_mini.html (28 Feb. 2012). International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, Volume XXXIX-B1, 2012 XXII ISPRS Congress, 25 August – 01 September 2012, Melbourne, Australia349


 Introducing a low-cost mini-UAV for thermal-and multispectral-imaging.pdf906.87 KBDownload full-textCitations (29)References (11)... Use of UAV is increasing day by day because of its enormous number of benefits for managing resources of farml andespecially for studying health issues of crops (Primicerio et al., 2012). UAV system incorporated with image, range, position sensors are capable of capturing the multispectral image low level resolution and provide a great opportunity in the field of precision farming Primicerio et al., 2012;Turner et al., 2011;Bendig et al., 2012). UAV gives us the opportunity to perform various quantitative and enthralling opportunity to capture image with good spatial and temporal resolution along with cost effectiveness as compared to other remote sensing platforms (Primicerio et al., 2012).  ...A comparision between satellite based and drone based remote sensing technology to achieve sustainable development: A reviewArticleApr 2019Gaurav SinghalView... Nowadays these difficulties can be overcome using low-cost and flexible unmanned platforms such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) [4] [5]. UAV platforms coupled with imaging, ranging, and positioning sensors, are able to collect multispectral imagery at cm-level resolution and offer great possibilities in the precision farming domain [6][7][8][9], agriculture and forestry management [10,11], and geosciences [12].  ...Remote Sensing Technologies in Precision FarmingArticleFull-text availableNov 2016 Blas MelissariRemote sensing technologies are being used more and more often in the agricultural business for the simple reason that the variables to be measured and controlled are very disperse in remote areas with limited wireless communications or no power supply, among other demands..
Sensors can be multispectral cameras on Satellites or mounted on Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV, or “drones”), but can also be remotely located stationary soil sensors, weather stations and also data extracted from the machinery as logged by its internal data acquisition system.
Recent advances in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV, or “drones”), made affordable a new set of possibilities of surveying remote locations and extract useful information from it. Images taken of crops or forests can be processed to obtain information about productivity, crop health, soil conditions, and a very detailed topography of the surveyed area, from which slopes and solar incidence factors can be calculated.
This work reviews the latest research trends regarding the application of data processing from remotely acquired data, in particular to pattern recognition from aerial imagery. Two validation cases are presented: evaluation of Eucalyptus forest inventory from UAV images and data processing and extraction of production parameters from acquired data from harvester.ViewShow abstract... Here, sensor correction and calibration methods are employed, such as geometric, radiometric, vignetting, resolution and directional effects. For multi-temporal or multi-sensor image analysis, relative digital number (DN)-to-radiance radiometric calibration is performed (Bendig, 2012;Hecker, 2013;Sebastian, 2015).  ...Identification of Spiking Chemicals Related To The Chemical Weapons Convention In Water Sample During Interlaboratory Competency TestArticleFull-text availableOct 2018 Mohd Faris Mohd RudiAn overview of approach, standard procedure and results following the participation in the 6th Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Chemical Analysis Competency Testing (CCACT) are presented. CCACT is an initiative from OPCW to assist state party laboratory to build the latter’s capacity in preparing for the Proficiency Test (PT). With an aim to join PT, Science and Research Institute for Defence (STRIDE) Chemical Analysis Laboratory participated in CCACT in 2018 to detect and identify chemical weapons for environmental analysis certification. Identification of chemical weapons is challenging not only because these chemicals are unstable and very toxic, but the analysis and the interpretation of results are required to be at a certain level of competency for all participating laboratories. As a general guideline a sample has to be analysed by at least two different analytical techniques, and at least one of these techniques uses spectrometry. All these spiking chemicals from water sample was found which are Quinuclidin-3-ol and 2, 2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid classified as Schedule 2 precursor or reactant of chemical weapons and Methyldiethanolamine (MDEA) classified as Schedule 3 precursor or reactant of chemical weaponsViewShow abstract... Multi-camera imaging systems are also attracting increasing interest in macroscopic imaging; for example to super-resolve aliased images and to enable increased functionalities such as foveal imaging and multi- spectral imaging [38][39][40][41][42][43]. The essential motivation is to introduce and exploit diversity to increase the data bandwidth through parallelized image recording: in spatial sampling, in magnification and in spectral bandpass in the above examples.  ...Parallelized aperture synthesis using multi-aperture Fourier ptychographic microscopyPreprintJun 2018 Pavan Chandra KondaJonathan M. Taylor Andrew Robert HarveyWe report a novel microscopy platform, termed Multi-Aperture Fourier ptychographic microscopy (MA-FPM), capable of realizing gigapixel complex field images with large data acquisition bandwidths - in gigapixels per second. MA-FPM is a synthetic aperture technique- an array of objectives together with tilt-shift illumination are used to synthesize high-resolution, wide field-of-view images. Here, the phase is recovered using Fourier ptychography (FP) algorithms, unlike conventional optical synthetic aperture techniques where holographic measurements are used. The parallel data-acquisition capability due to multiple objectives provides unprecedented bandwidth enabling imaging of high-speed in vitro processes over extended depth-of-field. Here, we present a proof-of-concept experiment demonstrating high-quality imaging performance despite using nine-fold fewer illumination angles compared to an equivalent FP setup. Calibration procedures and reconstruction algorithm were developed to address the challenges of multiple imaging systems. Our technique provides a new imaging tool to study cell cultures, offering new insights into these processes.ViewShow abstract... Use of UAV is increasing day by day because of its enormous number of benefits for managing resources of farml andespecially for studying health issues of crops (Primicerio et al., 2012). UAV system incorporated with image, range, position sensors are capable of capturing the multispectral image low level resolution and provide a great opportunity in the field of precision farming Primicerio et al., 2012;Turner et al., 2011;Bendig et al., 2012). UAV gives us the opportunity to perform various quantitative and enthralling opportunity to capture image with good spatial and temporal resolution along with cost effectiveness as compared to other remote sensing platforms (Primicerio et al., 2012).  ...A comparision between satellite based and drone based remote sensing technology to achieve sustainable development: A reviewArticleFull-text availableJan 2017 Babankumar shyam BansodR. Singh Ritula Thakur Gaurav SinghalPrecision agriculture is a way to manage the crop yield resources like water, fertilizers, soil, seeds in order to increase production, quality, gain and reduce squander products so that the existing system become eco-friendly. The main target of precision agriculture is to match resources andexecution according to the crop and climate to ameliorate the effects of praxis. Global Positioning System, Geographic Information System, Remote sensing technologies and various sensors are used in precision farming for identifying the variability in field and using different methods to deal with them. Satellite based remote sensing is used to study the variability in crop andground but suffer from various disadvantages such as prohibited use, high price, less revisiting time, poor resolution due to great height, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is other alternative option for application in precision farming. UAV overcomes the drawback of the ground based system, i.e. inaccessibility to remote and very dense regions. Hovering at a peak of 500 meter - 1000 meter is good enough to offer various advantages in image acquisition such as high spatial and temporal resolution, full flexibility, low cost. Recent studies of application of UAV in precision farming indicate advanced designing of UAV, enhancement in georeferencing andt he mosaicking of image, analysis and extraction of information required for supplying a true end product to farmers. This paper also discusses the various platforms of UAV used in farming applications, its technical constraints, reliability, privacy rights and safety.ViewShow abstractBig Earth data analytics: a surveyArticleFull-text availableMay 2019 Chaowei Yang Manzhu Yu Yun LiJuan GuBig Earth data are produced from satellite observations, Internet-of-Things, model simulations, and other sources. The data embed unprecedented insights and spatiotemporal stamps of relevant Earth phenomena for improving our understanding, responding, and addressing challenges of Earth sciences and applications. In the past years, new technologies (such as cloud computing, big data and artificial intelligence) have gained momentum in addressing the challenges of using big Earth data for scientific studies and geospatial applications historically intractable. This paper reviews the big Earth data analytics from several aspects to capture the latest advancements in this fast-growing domain. We first introduce the concepts of big Earth data. The architecture, various functionalities, and supporting modules are then reviewed from a generic methodology aspect. Analytical methods supporting the functionalities are surveyed and analyzed in the context of different tools. The driven questions are exemplified through cutting-edge Earth science researches and applications. A list of challenges and opportunities are proposed for different stakeholders to collaboratively advance big Earth data analytics in the near future.ViewShow abstractReaching new heights: can drones replace current methods to study plant population dynamics?ArticleJul 2018PLANT ECOL Jessica Tay Ying Ling Alexandra ErfmeierJesse M. KalwijSpatially explicit data on heterogeneously
distributed plant populations are difficult to quantify
using either traditional field-based methods or remote
sensing techniques alone. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
(UAVs) offer new means and tools for baseline
monitoring of such populations. We tested the use of
vegetation classification of UAV-acquired photographs
as a method to capture heterogeneously
distributed plant populations, using Jacobaea vulgaris
as a model species. Five sites, each containing 1–4
pastures with varying J. vulgaris abundance, were
selected across Schleswig–Holstein, Germany. Surveys
were conducted in July 2017 when J. vulgaris
was at its flowering peak. We took aerial photographs
at a 50 m altitude using three digital cameras (RGB,
red-edge and near-infrared). Orthomosaics were created
before a pixel-based supervised classification.
Classification results were evaluated for accuracy;
reliability was assessed with field data collected for
ground verification. An ANOVA tested the relationship
between field-based abundance estimations and
the supervised classifications. Overall accuracy of the
classification was very high (90.6%, ± 1.76 s.e.). Kappa coefficients indicated substantial agreement between field data and image classification (C 0.65). Field-based estimations were a good predictor of the supervised classifications (F = 7.91, df = 4,
P = 0.007), resulting in similar rankings of J. vulgaris
abundance. UAV-acquired images demonstrated the
potential as an objective method for data collection
and species monitoring. However, our method was
more time consuming than field-based estimations due
to challenges in image processing. Nonetheless, the
increasing availability of low-cost consumer-grade
UAVs is likely to increase the use of UAVs in plant
ecological studies.ViewShow abstractNonlinear ROV modelling and control system design using adaptive U-model, FLC and PID control approachesArticleFull-text availableJan 2018 Nur Afande Syed Saad Azhar AliMohamad Naufal Mohamad Saad Mark OvinisThis paper presents the development of remotely operated vehicle (ROV) control modelling and control synthesis using nonlinear adaptive U-model and compares it with the proportional-integralderivative (PID) control and fuzzy logic control (FLC) approaches. A nonlinear ROV model based on dynamic equations using the Newtonian method, and derivation towards kinematics equations and rigid-body mass matrixes are explained. This nonlinear ROV model represents the underwater thruster dynamics, ROV dynamics and kinematics related to the earth-fixed frame. Multivariable nonlinear adaptive control synthesis using the U-model approach incorporated with radial basis function (RBF) neural networks along with the PID and FLC approaches are implemented using MATLAB™ Simulink and integrated with the nonlinear ROV model. Simulations are carried in six degree of freedom (DoF) manoeuvring position in x, y, z coordinates from (0,0,0) to (5,5,1), with the final reference position at (10,10,2). All three controllers are compared and analysed in terms of control synthesis and model tracking capabilities without external disturbances intervention. The simulations are then done with external disturbances intervention for the nonlinear ROV model and the control performances are analysed. The results show good control signal convergence and tracking performance using the U-model control approach. © Science & Technology Research Institute for Defence (STRIDE), 2018.ViewShow abstractSmall Unmanned Aircraft Systems (sUAS): An Emerging Technology for HorticultureChapterFeb 2018James A. RobbinsSmall unmanned aircraft systems (sUAS), an emerging technology, are envisioned to be used for a variety of applications in agriculture, including horticulture. Some specific horticulture applications include crop monitoring, pesticide and nutrient applications, asset tracking and monitoring, crop inventory, and sales and marketing. Growing interest in sUAS is reflected in the increasing number and decreasing costs of aircraft and sensors. Until recently, the greatest challenge to wide-scale adoption of this technology has been regulatory issues. However, significant issues related to aircraft, sensors, and data processing and interpretation still require research-based solutions.ViewShow abstractUn Iseion a Gravisca? Fotogrammetria, telerilevamento multispettrale da APR e dati archeologici per una possibile identificazioneArticleFull-text availableJan 2018 Lucio Fiorini Filippo MaterazziIn recent years drones have become an innovative and powerful tool for the documentation of archaeological sites and for the identification of buried remains. In this study, firstly, the Greek-Etruscan sanctuary of Gravisca (Tarquinia, Italy) was documented using drone aerial photogrammetry. Secondly, it has been possible to accurately identify around the site the marks of buried structures analysing the health status of vegetation through the multispectral remote sensing and applying vegetation indexes. The identified marks may allow to hypothesize the presence of an Isis sanctuary in Gravisca, already attested by epigraphic sources. 1. Introduzione L'attuale crescita esponenziale nell'utilizzo degli APR (Aeromobile a Pilotaggio Remoto) 1 in moltissimi campi è perfettamente spiegabile se si pensa agli enormi vantaggi che essi forniscono. Negli ultimi anni si sono diffusi nell'industria cinematografica, nelle riprese televisive di qualsiasi genere, nelle ispezioni, nelle analisi ambientali, in moltissime attività sperimentali, nell'agricoltura di precisione e in parte anche in archeologia. Questo successo è dovuto in primo luogo alla loro sempre maggiore semplicità d'uso in rapporto alla qualità del dato che è possibile ottenere e ai costi di utilizzo mediamente bassi. L'organizzazione e la realizzazione di ac-quisizioni con i mezzi aerei tradizionali necessitano di molto più tempo rispetto a quello richiesto da un APR, che può essere trasportato nell'area di interesse e decollare in breve tempo e in pochissimo spazio per poi ac-quisire immagini ad altissima risoluzione. Negli ultimi anni, anche come risultato della sempre persistente mancanza di finanziamenti per la ricerca e della conseguente diminuzione dei fondi per le indagini su campo, l'aerofotogrammetria e il telerilevamento da APR stanno dando un nuovo impulso agli studi topografici 2 , dimostrandosi per di più oramai ineludibili nel campo della diagnostica archeologica. Un drone consente infatti di effettuare rilievi fotogrammetrici per la do-cumentazione cartografica dei siti, ma anche di sorvolare ampi spazi per individuare le tracce archeologiche, raccogliendo dati per la realizzazione di mappe tematiche prima di intraprendere un'operazione di scavo, o a fini di tutela e salvaguardia del patrimonio. 1 Secondo la definizione della normativa ENAC (Ente Nazionale per l'Aviazione Civile) entrata in vigore il 30 aprile 2014, un APR è un "mezzo aereo a pilotaggio remoto senza persone a bordo, non utilizzato per fini ricreativi e sportivi". Questo genere di velivoli sono spesso noti come droni, ma anche con numerosi altri nomi fra cui UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle), UAS (Unmanned Aerial System), RPAS (Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems) e altri. Si distinguono per essere controllati a distanza ma sono in grado di volare come un normale aereo od elicottero e possono avere dimensioni molto diverse. In Italia vengono suddivisi in due classi in base alla massa massima al decollo, minore di 25Kg e uguale o maggiore a 25Kg. Il regolamento italiano ENAC "Mezzi aerei a pilotaggio remoto" è disponibile al sito: www.enac.gov.it. 2 SCHLANGER et al. 2010.ViewShow abstractShow moreMCA Series -High Quality Multi-Spectral Imaging. Mini MCAMar 2012Tetracam IncTetracam Inc., 2012. MCA Series -High Quality Multi-Spectral 
 Imaging. Mini MCA. 
 http://www.tetracam.com/mca_mini.html (28 Feb. 2012).Autonomous Flying RobotsChapterJan 2010Kenzo Nonami Farid KendoulSatoshi SuzukiDaisuke NakazawaIn this chapter, the development of a low-cost attitude sensor is introduced. In the previous chapters, the control system design method of several UAVs/MAVs with rotary wings was shown, and several kinds of controllers were designed. The most important controller is the attitude controller because if attitude control is not achieved, any other control such as velocity and position controls cannot be achieved. For achieving attitude control, it is necessary to measure the attitude of UAV/MAV. Hence, we require an attitude sensor. However, conventional attitude sensors are somewhat expensive and heavy, and they cannot be used for the attitude control of small UAVs and MAVs. Therefore, the design of an attitude estimation algorithm by using low-cost sensors, accelerometers, gyro sensors, and magnetic sensor is introduced. Finally, a low-cost attitude sensor has been developed and evaluated by comparing it with a conventional high-accuracy sensor.ViewShow abstractMultispectral Remote Sensing from Unmanned Aircraft: Image Processing Workflows and Applications for Rangeland EnvironmentsArticleFull-text availableNov 2011 Andrea S. LaliberteMark A. Goforth Caitriana Steele Albert RangoUsing unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) as remote sensing platforms offers the unique ability for repeated deployment for acquisition of high temporal resolution data at very high spatial resolution. Multispectral remote sensing applications from UAS are reported in the literature less commonly than applications using visible bands, although light-weight multispectral sensors for UAS are being used increasingly. . In this paper, we describe challenges and solutions associated with efficient processing of multispectral imagery to obtain orthorectified, radiometrically calibrated image mosaics for the purpose of rangeland vegetation classification. We developed automated batch processing methods for file conversion, band-to-band registration, radiometric correction, and orthorectification. An object-based image analysis approach was used to derive a species-level vegetation classification for the image mosaic with an overall accuracy of 87%. We obtained good correlations between: (1) ground and airborne spectral reflectance (R 2 = 0.92); and (2) spectral reflectance derived from airborne and WorldView-2 satellite data for selected vegetation and soil targets. UAS-acquired multispectral imagery provides quality high resolution information for rangeland applications with the potential for upscaling the data to larger areas using high resolution satellite imagery.ViewShow abstractNIR-Green-Blue High-Resolution Digital Images for Assessment of Winter Cover Crop BiomassArticleFull-text availableJan 2011GISCI REMOTE SENSRaymond E. Hunt W. Dean HivelyGreg McCartyChristopher D. MillerMany small unmanned aerial systems use true-color digital cameras for remote sensing. For some cameras, only the red channel is sensitive to near-infrared (NIR) light. Given a camera with this spectral capability, we modified it to obtain NIR-green-blue images. One advantage of this low-cost system is that images can be inspected directly from the camera. This camera was flown in a Piper Cub aircraft for estimating biomass of wheat and barley planted as winter cover crops. There was much greater variation in biomass within experimental strips than among strips, so correlations were not high. This research demonstrates the need to develop better calibration methods so inexpensive camera sensors can be used in precision agriculture.ViewShow abstractMultiple Heterogeneous Unmanned Aerial VehiclesBookJan 2007 Anibal Ollero Ivan MazaAerial robots can be considered as an evolution of the Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). This book provides a quite complete overview of issues related to aerial robotics, addressing problems ranging from flight control to terrain perception and mission planning and execution. The major challenges and potentials of heterogeneous UAVs are comprehensively explored. It builds on the results of the European project COMETS, and highlights a number of key research topics in the area of UAV development, including communication, perception, teleoperation and decision making. The monograph emphasizes the current state of technology, the existing problems and potentialities of systems consisting of multiple UAVs which are heterogeneous in view of the different characteristics of the aerial vehicles, the different on-board payloads, and the different on-board information processing capabilities. The book also examines potential applications of UAVs and details a relevant application case: forest fire detection and monitoring.ViewShow abstractMit dem Modellhelikopter über Pinchango AltoArticleJan 2005H. Eisenbeiss Martin SauerbierL. Zhang Armin GruenViewSauerbier, M.: Investigation of UAV Systems and Flight Modes for Photogrammetric Applications. The Photogrammetric Record 26(136), 400-421ArticleDec 2011Photogramm RecHenri Eisenbeiss Martin SauerbierUnmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) photogrammetry has been used in a growing number of diverse applications across different scientific disciplines. Early applications of UAVs included cultural heritage and archaeology, mainly for the documentation and modelling of monuments, buildings and landscapes. In this paper, the focus is on the application of UAVs for documenting archaeological excavations. As excavating is a dynamic process and the objects to be acquired can change significantly within a few hours, UAVs can provide a suitable alternative to traditional measurement methods such as measuring tapes and tachymeters. Nevertheless, the image processing steps have to be automated, as a large number of resulting materials, usually sketches, maps, ortho-images and 3D models, need to be available quickly. In order to accelerate the processing workflow, an interface between the UAV ground control software and various photogrammetric software packages was developed at ETH Zurich, which allows for an efficient management and transfer of orientation, trajectory and sensor data for rapid project set up.ViewShow abstractThermal and Narrowband Multispectral Remote Sensing for Vegetation Monitoring From an Unmanned Aerial VehicleArticleFull-text availableApr 2009IEEE T GEOSCI REMOTEJ.A.J. Berni Pablo J. Zarco-Tejada Lola Suárez E. FereresTwo critical limitations for using current satellite sensors in real-time crop management are the lack of imagery with optimum spatial and spectral resolutions and an unfavorable revisit time for most crop stress-detection applications. Alternatives based on manned airborne platforms are lacking due to their high operational costs. A fundamental requirement for providing useful remote sensing products in agriculture is the capacity to combine high spatial resolution and quick turnaround times. Remote sensing sensors placed on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) could fill this gap, providing low-cost approaches to meet the critical requirements of spatial, spectral, and temporal resolutions. This paper demonstrates the ability to generate quantitative remote sensing products by means of a helicopter-based UAV equipped with inexpensive thermal and narrowband multispectral imaging sensors. During summer of 2007, the platform was flown over agricultural fields, obtaining thermal imagery in the 7.5-13-mum region (40-cm resolution) and narrowband multispectral imagery in the 400-800-nm spectral region (20-cm resolution). Surface reflectance and temperature imagery were obtained, after atmospheric corrections with MODTRAN. Biophysical parameters were estimated using vegetation indices, namely, normalized difference vegetation index, transformed chlorophyll absorption in reflectance index/optimized soil-adjusted vegetation index, and photochemical reflectance index (PRI), coupled with SAILH and FLIGHT models. As a result, the image products of leaf area index, chlorophyll content ( C <sub>ab</sub>), and water stress detection from PRI index and canopy temperature were produced and successfully validated. This paper demonstrates that results obtained with a low-cost UAV system for agricultural applications yielded comparable estimations, if not better, than those obtained by traditional manned airborne sensors.ViewShow abstractA Low-Cost Multi-Sensoral Mobile Mapping System and Its Feasibility for Tree MeasurementsArticleNov 2010ISPRS J PHOTOGRAMM Anttoni Jaakkola Juha Hyyppä Antero Kukko Yi LinThis paper presents a novel low-cost mini-UAV-based laser scanning system, which is also capable of performing car-based mobile mapping. The quality of the system and its feasibility for tree measurements was tested using the system’s laser scanner. The system was constructed as a modular measurement system consisting of a number of measurement instruments: a GPS/IMU positioning system, two laser scanners, a CCD camera, a spectrometer and a thermal camera. An Ibeo Lux and a Sick LMS151 profile laser were integrated into the system to provide dense point clouds; intensities of the reflected echoes can also be obtained with the Sick LMS. In our tests, when using a car as a platform, the pole-type object extraction algorithm which was developed resulted in 90% completeness and 86% correctness. The heights of pole-type objects were obtained with a bias of −1.6 cm and standard deviation of 5.4 cm. Using a mini-UAV as the platform, the standard deviation of individual tree heights was about 30 cm. Also, a digital elevation model extraction was tested with the UAV data, resulting in a height offset of about 3.1 cm and a standard deviation of 9.2 cm. With a multitemporal point cloud, we demonstrated a method to derive the biomass change of a coniferous tree with an R2 value of 0.92. The proposed system is capable of not only recording point cloud data giving the geometry of the objects, but also simultaneously collecting image data, including overlapping images and the intensity of laser backscatter, as well as hyperspectral and thermal data. Therefore we believe that the system is feasible for new algorithm and concept development and for basic research, especially when data is recorded multitemporally.ViewShow abstractImaging Spectrometry: Basic Principles and Prospective ApplicationsArticleJan 2001Freek van der Meer Steven Michael De JongViewShow moreJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for freeRecommendationsDiscover more publications, questions and projects in SensorsProjectHuman occupation of the Namib Desert: Geoarchaeological investigations at the margins of Late Pleistocene subcontinental networks Isabell Schmidt Olaf BubenzerGötz Ossendorf[...] Elena Amelie HenselThe main aim of this geoarchaeological project - funded by a University of Cologne Postdoc Grant awarded to I. Schmidt - is to investigate both the relationship between discontinuous cultural occup ation patterns and the regional climatic history at the juncture between Namib Desert and Great Escarpment in southwestern Namibia. New data obtained by our re-excavation of the site of Pockenbank Rock Shelter are set into regional and supra-regional contexts by applying a set of selected archaeological and geoarchaeological methods. ... [more]View projectProjectUAS spectrometry for sun-induced chlorophyll fluorescence retrieval Juliane Bendig Arko Lucieer Deepak Gautam[...] Zbyněk Malenovský1.	To identify the optimal SIF retrieval technique from spectra collected with a high-end Ocean Optics QE Pro spectrometer;
2.	To calibrate the SIF signal based on LED reference panels;
3.	To asses s the influence of crop structure, UAV flying height, and sun angle on the SIF signal;
4.	To compare UAV-SIF observations to ground-based measurements of plant fluorescence. ... [more]View projectArticleUAV-based Imaging for Multi-Temporal, very high Resolution Crop Surface Models to monitor Crop Growt...December 2013 · Photogrammetrie - Fernerkundung - Geoinformation Juliane Bendig Andreas BoltenGeorg BarethThis paper describes the generation of multi-temporal crop surface models (CSMs) with very high resolution of < 0.05 m. Data collection was carried out with a low-cost and low-weight UAV-system with a weight of less than 5 kg and the possibility of mounting different sensors. Key focus is the detection of crop growth variability and its dependency on cultivar, crop treatment and stress. The study ... [Show full abstract] area is a barley experiment field in Bonn in the west of Germany. Four replications of four cultivars of barley were investigated of which half of them where treated with a fungicide. Five UAV-campaigns were carried out during the growing season between early May and late July 2012. Ground control points (GCPs) measured with a Hi-Per Pro Topcon DGPS allowed for appropriate ground truth (< 0.02 m). Ground based infield control surveys on three dates served as validation of the method. Additionally, various destructive and non-destructive ground data were collected. The stereo images captured were processed into CSMs by using the structure-from-motion (SfM) software Agisoft PhotoScan. Generated plant heights ranged between 0.16 m and 0.983 m. R (n = 32) for the correlation between plant heights in the CSM and infield control surveys is 0.69. Lower plant heights were detected in those plots of the field where no fungicide was applied. Height differences between cultivars were observed and increased during growing season. The accuracy assessment of DEMs generated with the proposed UAV-based imaging showed a correlation coefficient of 0.99 (n = 10) between the DGPS GCPs and the DEMs with a mean difference of 0.01 m in z-direction.Read moreConference PaperMapping the spatial distribution of highland kimchi cabbage growth based on unmanned aerial vehicleOctober 2018Chan-Won ParkSang-Il NaKyu-ho So[...]Kyung-Do LeeRead moreConference PaperMapping the spatial distribution of barley growth based on unmanned aerial vehicleAugust 2017Sangil NaChanwon ParkKyuho So[...]Kyungdo LeeRead moreConference PaperFull-text availableChosen problems with acquiring multispectral imagery data using the MiniMCA cameraMay 2014 Agata Orych Rafał DąbrowskiIn recent years there had been a visible increase in the availability of light – “amateur” UAV’s, which can be adapted for remote sensing applications, e.g. research concerning water pollution. One of the many methods used to detect pollutants in water is a method based on spectral reflectance coefficients. 
Spectral reflectance coefficients can be obtained from imagery acquired in different ... [Show full abstract] spectra due to their close correlation to the pixel value. The miniMCA6-channel camera had been specially designed for UAV applications. It enables the acquisition of multispectral imagery data in varied ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum, the bandwidths of which are determined by the applied interference filters. One of its biggest drawbacks is the inability to set exposure parameters for each channel separately. Depending on the transmission coefficient of the interference filters used for each channel, the exposure time for each channel should be different. This can be only adjusted using a numerical value linking the exposure time of the master channel with the exposure time of the slave channel depending on the used interference filter. Therefore the value of a single pixel in the individual spectral channels are often burdened with errors.
This phenomenon is most noticeable when acquiring imagery of spectral reflectance standards. Pixels representing the white reference standards on an image acquired by a slave channel are usually overexposed, that is not the case in the master channel, which has a negative effect on the possibility of acquiring reliable spectral reflectance coefficients of investigated samples.
The article contains a description and the results of an experiment to determine the optimal exposure time for the miniMCA camera (as a function of light intensity and distance to the sample), to ensure that the digital number of the pixels representing the white reference standards is always a chosen stable value.View full-textDiscover moreDownload citationWhat type of file do you want? RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download? Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadInterested in research on Sensors?Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest research from leading experts in Sensors and many other scientific topics.Join for freeorDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back! Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account? Sign upAboutNewsCompanyCareersSupportHelp centerFAQBusiness solutionsRecruitingAdvertising© ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.ImprintTermsPrivacy