url: http://www.uavcropdustersprayers.com/ndvi_multi_spectral_cameras.htm





NDVI Multi-Spectral Cameras















					Agriculture UAV Crop Dusters


					NDVI Multi-Spectral Cameras
7 Precision 
					Agriculture Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV Crop Duster Sprayer 
					Platforms
  




































											Agriculture Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 
											(UAV) Sprayers


											by Homeland Surveillance & 
											Electronics LLC 































Agriculture Sprayers

				Comparison Chart

				AG-VA Multi-Rotor Sprayers

				Hercules Helicopter Sprayers

				MRCD6 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				MRCD18 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				MRCD24 Multi-Rotor Sprayer

				RHCD-01 Helicopter Sprayer

				RHCD-80-1 Helicopter Sprayer

				RHCD-80-15 Helicopter  Sprayer


				How UAV Sprayers Work  

				What is Vegetation Index Vigor 

				NDVI Multi-Spectral Cameras

				UAVs On The Farm
Guide To 
				Managing Prickly Pear

				Farm Bureau - Drone ROI

				UAV Role In Agriculture

				UAV Planting Trees
Banana Growers
Big Yields Research 
				Center

				Precision AG In The Drone Age

				Yamaha RMAX Crop Sprayer


  

Other Commercial Platforms


				914 Rotax Manned/Unmanned 

				Alliance HD Helicopter 

				Alliance Gas Helicopter 

				Avenger Electric Helicopter 


				RDASS Q1000 Quad-Rotor 

				Delta-FW70 Fixed Wing





				RedEdge™






				Satellite quality data, 
				leaf-scale resolution!




				UAV Pilot Training School


				Class Size Are Limited











						FAA To Crack Down On Airspace Violators



FLY LEGAL



Avoid Fines & 
				Jail Time


      





				 















































Video Library







FAA 
				Releases Small UAS Notice of Proposed Rulemaking! 
				- Check out the provisions being proposed in the FAA’s Small UAS 
				NPRM. 




				FAA Grants UAV Permits for Agriculture & Real Estate Companies
				- The Associated Press reports 
				that on Tuesday, the FAA issued exceptions to the commercial UAV 
				ban, permitting the monitoring of crops and real estate use for 
				aerial photographs of properties for sale. This is the first 
				time permits have been granted to agriculture and real estate 
				companies. 




				FAA Poised to Include Limitations on Hobbyist UAVs -
				The FAA is proposing to amend 
				its regulations to adopt specific rules for the operation of 
				small unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in the National Airspace 
				System (NAS). 
.




				Judge Rules Against FAA in ‘Landmark’ UAV Challenge - 
 In a decision dated March 6,
				NTSB Judge Patrick Geraghty found that 
				the FAA has no regulations that apply 
				to model aircraft or that classify a model aircraft as an 
				unmanned aircraft system.


UAV FAA 
				Regulations -  
For more than five 
				decades, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has compiled 
				a proven track record of introducing new technology and aircraft 
				safely into the National Airspace System (NAS). 



				FAA Fact Sheet – Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) 
				- For Immediate Release. 



				FAA Certificate of Authorization or Waiver (COA) 
- Before you can 
				operate a UAV in National Airspace System (NAS) you must have a 
				COA. The average time to issue an authorization for 
				non-emergency operations is less than 60 days,  















							FREE UAV WORLD NEWSLETTER




We'll 
							help keep you abreast of what is happening in the 
							world of UAV's. Its FREE!





							Email:
 





 














New & 
				Used UAV For Sale -
				Commercial, industrial, military, first 
				responders and police UAV's with 1 - 75 lb payload helicopter 
				UAV. Autopilots, cameras and more. Check them out! 


Demo UAV For 
				Sale - Great 
				Saving on our Demo Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs For Sale.  
				All of our Demo UAV Units for sale have low flight hours and are 
				in excellent condition.  




The UAV Blog 
- Find out 
				what others are saying about the World of UAVs.  Share your 
				2 cents worth with them!  No 
				Sign-up required!




				TATTU PLUS 

				Smart Battery







GoPro 
				Cameras & Lens













                  


NDVI 
						Multi-Spectral Cameras
GEMS Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdfGEMS Camera Resolution101.pdfGEMS Crop-Monitoring-NDVI.pdfMicraSense Red Edge Multi-Spectral NDVI CameraMicaSense - Tracker Image Processing.pdfMAPIR Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdfParrot Sequoia Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdf
























						Fly your mission


						Securely upload 
						your raw data


						Accurate crop-health maps 
						automatically created

View and manage your 
						data from anywhere











NDVI Explained

A simple overview of how drones are used in the 
		farming industry to provide aerial imagery to create NDVI maps to 
		improve crop yields, reduce farming costs, protect the environment and 
		quantify crop damage insurance claims
The FAA recognizes that drones are essential to 
		increasing the productivity of farmlands. Small drones pose a limited 
		risk of injuring people, other aircraft, and property. Thus FAA approval 
		to use drones for farming is coming soon.
Probable FAA policies will revolve around 
		safety, primarily collision avoidance. 

Daylight operation
LOS (Line of Sight) Operation
400' Ceiling
Various safety devices, pilot and aircraft 
			certifications, training, safety protocols, etc.

Agronomists using drones to assist their 
		recommendations for fertilizer and pesticide application can improve the 
		bottom line to farmers by as much as 15%, and help the environment as 
		well.
The world's farmers must increase yields to 
		feed the world's rapidly growing population. Drones are the latest 
		technological advancement to assist in increasing crop yields while 
		lowering pollution and costs.
Large fields and tall crops are extremely 
		difficult to assess from the ground. Drones provide aerial access at a 
		relatively low cost. 
Agronomists operate the drones themselves or 
		hire local drone service providers to fly the fields.
Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) 
		is an extremely important tool to determine if crops are stressed. NDVI 
		compares bands of light to accurately determine plant stress. This is 
		state of the art technology. Wikipedia explains NDVI in detail.
Photos directly from the onboard NDVI 
		compatible camera are unusable as is. The photos must undergo special 
		processing.
First, individual photos are stitched together 
		to make one large photo. Online processors are used for this operation 
		due to the high cost and complexity of the hardware and software.
The high quality single image is converted to a 
		NDVI image. NDVI processing software is inexpensive and easy to use 
		though the same online processors who stitched the photos offer this 
		service inexpensively.
The agronomist uses both the normal and the 
		NDVI images with more traditional methods to assess plant stress. 
Plant stress can be detected well before it can 
		be seen with the naked eye as well as after obvious damage is apparent. 
The agronomist then performs "ground truthing" 
		combined with other traditional methods to verify the NDVI data and 
		determine the cause of the stress. Often the agronomist physically walks 
		into the field and looks at the plants where the NDVI has identified 
		problem areas.
The agronomist then makes recommendations to 
		the farmer. If variable rate applicators are used by the farmer, then 
		varying rates of fertilizer and pesticides are recommended which reduce 
		treatment costs, protect the environment by reducing unnecessary 
		over-applications, and increase yields.

The three photos below are all derived from only one camera. While 
		you see a low resolution image here, the resolution of the actual photo 
		is high enough to see individual blades of grass! The agronomist saves 
		time because if bare earth, standing water or another obvious problem is 
		identified using the image there is no need to walk the field. The sod 
		farmer in this case uses this data to identify excessively large bare 
		spots early on in the growing cycle to replant problem areas and improve 
		yield per acre.














GEMS Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdfGEMS Camera Resolution101.pdfGEMS Crop-Monitoring-NDVI.pdfMicraSense Red Edge Multi-Spectral NDVI CameraMicaSense - Tracker Image Processing.pdfMAPIR Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdfParrot Sequoia Multi-Spectral NDVI Camera.pdf



After-Sale Service
 

 24 Hours Technical Support
				User friendly English software, user manual and detailer Videos/CD



		Get a "FREE" Quote 

FLY LEGAL


Section 
		333 Exemption and COA Processing















UAV 
					Agriculture Crop Duster Sprayers Helicopter
by Homeland 
					Surveillance & Electronics LLC






















or
								
								click here









							UAV LEASING SOLUTIONS










Search •
					
					About Us •
					
					Mission Statement •
					
					FAA Section 333 & COA Processing •
					
					Find A UAV Dealer •
					
					FAQ 

					Product Photos •
					
					Media and Events

					UAV's For Sale •
					
					From The Desk Of •
					
					In The News •
					
					BLOG  
					 ITAR 
					Policy •
					
					Privacy Policy •
					
					Terms of Service •
					
					Contact Us 


					Free Consultation • 
					
					UAS Dealership Opportunities 



Commercial UAV Applications 
					• 

Our Product Line 
					• 

Platforms 
					• 

Autopilot 
					• 

Communications

					• 

Photo Software 
					• 

Specialty Cameras 
					• 

Camera Packages 
					• 

Product Accessories 
					• 

Products Maintenance

					• 

					UAV Pilot Training School 
					•
					
					UAV Demo Units For Sale •
					
					UAV Financing

					UAV Leasing


We 
adhere strictly 
					to the 


					International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)

www.policeuavdrones.com 
					www.hse-uav.com 
					
					www.commercial-uav.com 


					www.agricultureuavs.com  
					
					www.uavcropdustersprayers.com  
					www.uavhobbyshop.com


Find a 
					HSE UAV Dealer Distributor
					Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
					UAV 
					Dealers & Distributors Inquiries Welcomed




















ITAR Policy 

It is the policy of Homeland Surveillance & Electronics 
		to adhere strictly to all U.S. laws and regulations covering the export, 
		re-export, and import of Defense related articles, technical data, and 
		services. Such laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the 
		Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C.), the Export 
		Administration Regulations (EAR) (administered by the U.S. Department of 
		Commerce), the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. 2778), and the 
		International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 C.F.R.) 
		(Administered by the U.S. Department of State). Further, Homeland 
		Surveillance & Electronics adheres to additional restrictions on exports 
		and re-exports contained in various country-specific regulations 
		administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets 
		Control (OFAC). 
All content subject 
		to change without notice. 
		Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our terms of use & privacy 
		policies.
Copyright 2013 - 2015 © HSE - Unmanned 
		Aerial Vehicles (UAV) All rights reserved.
		Revised:
		04/29/17