url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326072454_LiDAR_from_drones_employed_for_mapping_archaeology_-_Potential_benefits_and_challenges








    






 











































(PDF) LiDAR from drones employed for mapping archaeology – Potential, benefits and challenges


We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got itWe value your privacyWe use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.Accept CookiestopSee all ›22 ReferencesSee all ›5 FiguresDownload citationShare  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn RedditDownload full-text PDFLiDAR from drones employed for mapping archaeology – Potential, benefits and challengesArticle (PDF Available) in Archaeological Prospection 25(1) · June 2018 with 350 ReadsDOI: 10.1002/arp.1712  Cite this publication Ole Risbøl12.04Norwegian University of Science and Technology Lars Gustavsen11.63Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research (NIKU)AbstractAlthough the use of both drones and LiDAR (light detection and ranging) has become common in archaeology in recent years, LiDAR scanning from drones is still in its infancy. The technological development related to drones as well as laser scanner instruments has gradually reached the point where these can be integrated. In this paper we present the results from a test where the applicability of LiDAR used from a drone was studied. The study had two objectives – both based on comparative studies: (i) whether LiDAR from drones represents an improvement in terms of detection success; and (ii) whether LiDAR from drones can increase the quality of the documentation of archaeological features and their physical properties based on remote sensing. A modest improvement of detection success was found, but was not as convincing as one would perhaps expect given the relatively large increase in terms of ground points. This has led us to the conclusion that very dense vegetation obstructs laser beams from reaching all the way to the bare earth. As regards accuracy in documenting archaeological features, the study showed more significant improvements. The last part of the paper is dedicated to a discussion of the pros and cons of using LiDAR from drones compared to conventional airborne laser scanning from aeroplanes or helicopters. The main advantages concern flexibility, low flight altitude and small laser footprint as well as the advantages of a far‐reaching field of view. The disadvantages are related to price, battery capacity, size of area and especially the requirement of line of sight between the drone operator and the drone, a fact that restricts the efficiency in terms of mapping large areas. Nevertheless, the final conclusion is that LiDAR from drones has the potential to make a substantial improvement to archaeological remote sensing.Discover the world's research15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for free Figures - uploaded by Ole RisbølAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Ole RisbølContent may be subject to copyright. Map showing the drone-scanned area, which is partly situated in Eidsvoll municipality and partly in Nannestad municipality, approximately 50 km north of Oslo. The northern part of Oslo airport Gardermoen is seen approximately 4 km south of the drone-scanned area [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]…  The drone in action during the mapping of the study area. Photograph: Geomatikk survey [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]…  The measurements of the archaeological features included in the study…  +1This figure shows the relation between positive and negative detections (yes/no), respectively, and the increased number of ground points from 2011 to 2016 (multiplication factor) [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]… Content uploaded by Ole RisbølAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Ole Risbøl on Aug 13, 2018 Content may be subject to copyright.Download full-text PDF 





RESEARCH ARTICLELiDAR from drones employed for mapping archaeology –Potential, benefits and challengesOle Risbøl1|Lars Gustavsen21NTNU University Museum, NorwegianUniversity of Science and Technology,Trondheim, Norway2Norwegian Institute for Cultural HeritageResearch, Oslo, NorwayCorrespondenceOle Risbøl, Norwegian University of Scienceand Technology, NTNU University Museum,Erling Skakkes Gate 47A, 7012 Trondheim,Norway.Email: ole.risbol@ntnu.noFunding informationNorges ForskningsrådAbstractAlthough the use of both drones and LiDAR (light detection and ranging) has becomecommon in archaeology in recent years, LiDAR scanning from drones is still in itsinfancy. The technological development related to drones as well as laser scannerinstruments has gradually reached the point where these can be integrated. In thispaper we present the results from a test where the applicability of LiDAR used froma drone was studied. The study had two objectives –both based on comparative stud-ies: (i) whether LiDAR from drones represents an improvement in terms of detectionsuccess; and (ii) whether LiDAR from drones can increase the quality of the documen-tation of archaeological features and their physical properties based on remote sens-ing. A modest improvement of detection success was found, but was not asconvincing as one would perhaps expect given the relatively large increase in termsof ground points. This has led us to the conclusion that very dense vegetationobstructs laser beams from reaching all the way to the bare earth. As regards accuracyin documenting archaeological features, the study showed more significant improve-ments. The last part of the paper is dedicated to a discussion of the pros and consof using LiDAR from drones compared to conventional airborne laser scanning fromaeroplanes or helicopters. The main advantages concern flexibility, low flight altitudeand small laser footprint as well as the advantages of a far‐reaching field of view. Thedisadvantages are related to price, battery capacity, size of area and especially therequirement of line of sight between the drone operator and the drone, a fact thatrestricts the efficiency in terms of mapping large areas. Nevertheless, the final conclu-sion is that LiDAR from drones has the potential to make a substantial improvementto archaeological remote sensing.KEYWORDSarchaeological features, detection success, documentation, drone, LiDAR1|INTRODUCTIONAerial LiDAR (light detection and ranging) was introduced to archaeol-ogy almost 20 years ago and has since become a widely used tool bythose of the archaeological community preoccupied with remotesensing. When the first pioneers started making use of LiDAR datafor archaeological purposes around the turn of the millennium, itimmediately generated very convincing results, leading some todescribe it as a quantum leap for archaeology (Bewley, Crutchley, &Shell, 2005). Nevertheless, some fields of improvement related toarchaeological use were identified and, parallel with more generalimprovements in instrumentation and the technical aspects of air-borne laser scanning, the archaeological community contributed tothe development of visualization techniques in order to improve theability to carry out archaeological interpretations of LiDAR‐generatedimages (see e.g. Bennett, Welham, Hill, & Ford, 2012). Other areas ofRevised: 12 May 2018 Accepted: 21 May 2018DOI: 10.1002/arp.1712Archaeological Prospection. 2018;1–10. Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/arp 1




development related to LiDAR data where archaeologists have beenengaged include the use of intensity data (Challis & Howard, 2013),and semi‐automated detection of archaeological features (Bennett,Cowley, & De Laet, 2014).Thus, LiDAR has increasingly entered the archaeological remotesensing toolbox, which until recently mainly contained aerial andsatellite imagery. Over the last few years, the rapidly growing develop-ment of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), or drones, has also attractedthe attention of archaeologists, along with a range of other unmannedplatforms such as kites, balloons, blimps, etc. UAVs are powered aerialvehicles characterized by the fact that they are unmanned andremotely controlled by personnel on the ground (Campana, 2017).Normally, UAVs used for archaeological purposes are launched intothe air carrying a camera for the documentation of excavation sitesas well as for producing footage placing the excavation into a broaderlandscape context. Generating three‐dimensional (3D) models (digitalsurface models) and point clouds based on photogrammetric methodshas become increasingly common, and relatively inexpensive photo-grammetry software is now available; software that also has a compar-atively low user‐threshold. These factors are fundamental to thewidespread use of drones and other UAVs in archaeology.The drone branch of remote sensing is also characterized by asteady technological development that widens the area of utilization,also for the benefit of archaeologists. One of these developments isthe possibility to mount LiDAR scanners on drones. So far, platformsused in airborne LiDAR have been either fixed‐wing aeroplanes orhelicopters, but these latest developments facilitate new possibilitiesfor archaeologists. The wish to execute LiDAR scanning from dronesis not completely new, it stretches back at least 10 years (Fantoni et al.,2004), but progress has been slow since it has been hampered by twoimportant factors: weight and power (Charlton, Coveney, & McCarthy,2009; Wallace, Lucieer, Watson, & Turner, 2012). Initially, LiDARinstruments were too heavy and therefore exceeded the payload ofthe drones. In addition, obtaining sufficient power to run the drone,the scanner and the positioning systems was an obstacle. In forestryresearch, experiments using UAV‐borne LiDAR started around 2010(Wallace et al., 2012), and in the ensuing years UAVs and LiDARinstruments were developed for use by various other industries andsectors. This now offers a potential use for archaeological purposes.Recently, a test was carried out in Norway where a wooded areawith a range of different archaeological features was laser‐scannedfrom a drone. This is a pioneering project, although not the only onewhere LiDAR from drones has been tested on archaeological objects(see Campana, 2017). A main reasoning behind our test is that flyingat a low altitude with drones will ensure small footprints and thereforebetter vegetation penetration abilities and consequently improveddetection success.In order to study the outcome of drone‐based scanning, previousstudies and existing LiDAR data were included for comparison. Thisincluded an experimental detection success study from 2011, aimed atanalysing the effects of pulse density and digital terrain model (DTM)smoothing. Here, four archaeologists with extensive LiDAR experienceinterpreted DTMs generated from LiDAR data with point densities of 1,5 and 10 points/m2, each with three different levels of DTM smoothing.The data were from a scanning conducted in 2007. Prior to theexperimental study, the area was systematically surveyed for culturalremains by field walking and reconnaissance, resulting in the mappingof 334 archaeological features. The study revealed that there was a sig-nificant improvement in the detection success when the point densitywas increased from 1 to 5 points/m2. It also showed an improvementwhen increasing the point density further from 5 to 10 points/m2, butthat this improvement was less pronounced. Regarding the DTMsmoothing, the results showed that smoothing did not have any signifi-cant effect on the detection success (Bollandsås et al., 2012).At the beginning of the 2000s, a resolution of 0.7 point/m2wasset as the standard data quality in forestry before becoming the indus-try standard in much of the data acquisition in Norway in general. Theaim of this standard was to increase map quality, especially regardingheight‐above‐datum improvements. Thus 0.7 point/m2data havebeen collected from extensive areas in several municipalities overthe years. In 2015, a national coverage campaign aiming for 2points/m2was launched and is still ongoing, continuously producingnew data from still larger areas. All data collected by the authoritiesare publicly available and free to download and use. This means thatarchaeologists working within the management sector in Norway,most of whom are affiliated with county municipalities, have thesedata at their disposal and use them on a regular basis in land‐useplanning. The access to these data also includes the academic worldat universities, research institutes, etc., which is naturally importantin terms of carrying out further research and development.The objectives addressed in this paper are: what is the added valueof using UAVs (drones) as platforms compared to aeroplanes/helicop-ters when attempting to identify and map archaeological features?What are the advantages and disadvantages in terms of precision, res-olution, detection success, price, practical issues and area size?2|METHODS AND RESULTSIn July 2016, a forested area measuring 1.9 km2and situated justnorth of Oslo Airport was laser‐scanned using a Camflight X8HLdrone carrying a Riegel VUX‐1 LiDAR scanner (Figures 1 and 2).Metadata used here is taken from: Rapport om droneskanning forNIKU. Prosjekt Hurdal/Eidsvoll. Geomatikk Survey AS, July 2016.The weight of the scanner was 3.5 kg, and the total weight of thedrone, scanner, camera, parachute and battery pack was 24.79 kg.The flight altitude was 120 m above ground and the moving speed6 m/s. The target pulse density was set to 260 points/m2, which inreality resulted in 170 points/m2and a total of 421 139 544 laserpoints following post‐survey processing. A classification of the datain off‐ground and ground points, respectively, resulted in a groundpoint data set of 42 117 910 points and an average ground point dis-tribution of 22 points/m2. The accuracy of the DTM is approximately2cminXYZ. The laser beam footprint was assessed to be 60 mm.Increased flying altitude will lead to larger footprints, and accordingly,the laser beam footprint will be 250 mm when flying the scanner500 m above ground level, and 500 mm if the altitude is increasedto 1000 m (Riegl, 2017).The particular area for the test was chosen based on the fact thatparts of the same area were used in the aforementioned 2011 study.2RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN



As mentioned earlier, this previous test was related to various aspectsof detection success when using LiDAR data for identifying culturalfeatures in forested areas (Bollandsås et al., 2012; Risbøl et al.,2013), and the area was systematically field‐surveyed in 2010 in orderto establish a complete ground‐truth reference data set. This coverstwo parts of the drone‐scanned area and was also utilized in thepresent study (Figure 3).The approach used in the present study was twofold, where theresults from the high‐resolution drone scanning were partly (a)compared with the results from the detection success studymentioned earlier, and (b) compared with two data sets from previousgeneral LiDAR campaigns: a 0.7 point/m2data set from 2007 and a 2points/m2data set from the 2015 national LiDAR coverage projectrespectively (Table 1 and Figure 4).2.1 |Assessing the feature detection rateFor the present study, a part of the 2011 study area measuring0.65 km2and comprising a total of 90 archaeological features waschosen. Thirteen of the features were not identified at all by anyof the four test persons during the 2011 study, regardless of theresolution of the interpreted DTMs. In order to investigate whethera DTM generated from the drone scanning data would provide abetter basis for identifying these difficult cognizable archaeologicalfeatures a comparison was made. A DTM with an average of 22points/m2was prepared and subsequently studied visually in QuickTerrain Modeller, a 3D point cloud and terrain visualization softwarepackage (www.appliedimagery.com). The same software was used inthe 2011 study. Quick Terrain Modeller allows the interpreter tocarry out real‐time manipulation of LiDAR‐generated 3D models.This includes navigating the model, shifting the light angle and direc-tion, exaggerating the elevation, making digital cross‐sections ofpotential anomalies, etc. In none of the studies was the range ofnow available and commonly used visualization techniques usedand the interpretations were solely based on plain hill‐shadedimages. This makes the present LiDAR from drones study compara-ble with the 2011 study.The 13 features completely missed in the 2011 study consistedof six house foundations, two charcoal pits and five charcoal kilns.When an interpretation was made of the UAV LiDAR‐generatedDTM it was possible to identify four of these features (Table 2). Asthe data in the table also show, there is a considerable differencein terms of the number of ground points when comparing the 2011data set with that of 2016. A multiplication factor was calculatedfor each of the 13 archaeological features by dividing the numberof ground points from the 2016 scanning with those from the2007/10 scanning. This was done in order to make the values com-parable. The number of ground points differs from feature to featureFIGURE 1 Map showing the drone‐scanned area, which is partly situated in Eidsvoll municipality and partly in Nannestad municipality,approximately 50 km north of Oslo. The northern part of Oslo airport Gardermoen is seen approximately 4 km south of the drone‐scannedarea [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]FIGURE 2 The drone in action during the mapping of the study area.Photograph: Geomatikk survey [Colour figure can be viewed atwileyonlinelibrary.com]RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN 3



FIGURE 3 The area scanned from a drone in 2016 and the systematically field‐surveyed areas from 2010. The archaeological features mappedduring the field survey are indicated in green [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]TABLE 1 Data acquisition parameters. The 0.7 and the 10 points/m2data sets are from 2007. In consequence they are referred to as 2007/0.7and 2007/10, respectively. The latter is also referred to as ‘the 2011 study data set’2007/0.7 2007/10 (2011 study) 2015 2016Ground points/m20.7 10 2 22Date April August–September November JulyInstrument Leica ALS50‐II Leica ALS50‐II Leica ALS70 Riegel VUX‐1Platform Aircraft Aircraft Aircraft DroneFlight altitude 1350 m a.g. 790 m a.g. 1560 m a.g. 120 m a.g.Pulse frequency (Hz) 78 000 119 000 60 000 550 000FIGURE 4 (a) 0.7 point/m2, (b) 2 points/m2(black circles = charcoal kilns, red circles = grave mounds, yellow circles = charcoal pits), (c) 10 points/m2, (d) 22 points/m2[Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]4RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN



and varies totally from a multiplication factor from 1.2 as the lowestto 24.9 as the highest, and with an average of 12.9. However, theincrease in the number of ground points does not seem to be thesole factor in explaining why four of the missed features from the2011 study are visible in the LiDAR‐from‐drone‐generated DTM(Figure 5). The four features have a multiplication factor rangingbetween 3.6 and 19.3, with a 10.6 average and thus below the totalaverage. The multiplication factor of the nine features that are stillnot visible despite the increased DTM resolution is within a rangefrom 1.2 to 24.9, with a 13.9 average multiplication factor.2.2 |Assessing accuracy of feature descriptionThe second objective in this study was a comparison between theLiDAR‐from‐drone‐generated model with two widely available datasets: a 0.7 and a 2 points/m2data set.The comparison we have pursued in this part of the study isrelated to the quality obtainable in terms of documentation ofcultural features identified by remote sensing. Unlike the identifica-tion of features, documentation is about recording and describingthe specific features and their main physical properties. What is theaccuracy of this compared with measurements taken on location? Inother words, this part of the study highlights the effect of increasedpoint density on the ability to retrieve more detailed informationabout the identified and mapped archaeological features. This wasdone by comparing field surveys carried out in 2010 with indoorcomputer‐based digital measurements using the 0.7, 2 and 22points/m2data sets, respectively.The archaeological features used in this part of the study wereeight grave mounds and 13 charcoal pits; thereby representing bothconvex‐and concave‐shaped features. Analyses were made basedon the diameter and height of the grave mounds plus the diameterand depth of the charcoal pits (Table 3). The fieldwork measurementswere set as the template with which the digital desk‐based measure-ments were compared. When the computer‐based digital measure-ments were carried out, each archaeological feature was measured inthe same compass direction from the one resolution to the other inorder to make the figures comparable.The comparison study shows that the measurements vary consid-erably (Figure 6 (a–d)). It is quite clear that accuracy increases withincreased point density. Basically, this trend is clear, although somedeviations exist, but these are few and the overall picture is well‐defined. This is further illustrated in Figure 7, which shows the averageaccuracy variation.As shown in Table 4, the ability to estimate dimensions of bothgrave mounds and charcoal pits is high when considering the dronedata, where the average measurements are distributed around 90%accuracy compared with the field measurements. Except for the diam-eter of the grave mounds, the accuracy concerning 2 points/m2datafalls to just below 80%. This decrease is maintained and reinforcedregarding the lowest resolution although in unequal degree, as thenumbers are better for mounds than for pits.3|DISCUSSIONThe results observed through this study need to be explained anddiscussed. The expectation that a significant increase of point densityTABLE 2 The 13 archaeological features that were omitted in the 2011 study compared with 2016 dataID CategoryNumber of ground points 2007/10scanning (2011 study)Number of ground points2016 scanningIncrease number of ground points(multiplication factor)Visible on UAV LiDARgenerated DTMs?38 Charcoal pit 34 123 3.6 Yes60 Charcoal kiln 90 1047 11.6 Yes67 House foundation 102 2536 24.9 No72 Charcoal kiln 332 2778 8.4 No77 House foundation 55 432 7.9 No80 House foundation 31 598 19.3 Yes91 House foundation 97 2126 21.9 No95 House foundation 48 951 19.8 No99 House foundation 85 1875 22.1 No101 Charcoal kiln 520 4074 7.8 Yes116 Charcoal pit 98 118 1.2 No123 Charcoal kiln 274 2478 9.0 No124 Charcoal kiln 358 3700 10.3 NoFIGURE 5 This figure shows the relation between positive andnegative detections (yes/no), respectively, and the increased numberof ground points from 2011 to 2016 (multiplication factor) [Colourfigure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN 5



combined with narrow footprints would generate high resolutionDTMs of such a quality that the detection success would improve sub-stantially was only partially fulfilled. The study has proven a slight, butby no means decisive increase in terms of detection success. It seemsthat the trend shown in the 2011 study (Bollandsås et al., 2012) isconfirmed. That study showed that the effect of increasing point den-sity is most pronounced from 1 to 5 points/m2but that it diminishesfrom 5 to 10 points/m2. The present study shows a similar gentleincrease to 22 points/m2. It seems the positive effect of flying at lowaltitude with drones and thus collecting ground points with narrowfootprints as compared to the use of fixed‐wing aeroplanes or helicop-ter platforms, does not occur to any great extent. One likely explana-tion for this might be that certain types of low shrub vegetation arevery dense and thus impenetrable regardless of target pulse densityand size of footprints. The data were collected in August/Septemberand July, respectively, which makes them comparable in terms ofseason. The intersection between resolution and types of vegetationwhen generating DTMs for archaeological purposes are well‐knownissues, and often mentioned when archaeologists report their results.This is mainly discussed in relation to LiDAR projects in forested areas(Doneus, Briese, Fera, & Janner, 2008). Crow, Benham, Devereux, andAmable (2007) published an elaborate study, showing how woodlandcanopy and understorey vegetation affect the ability to interpretDTMs for archaeology. When laser‐scanning woodlands, large partsof the laser pulses are reflected from the canopy or lower parts ofthe trees, while some parts reach all the way to the ground. WhenLiDAR is used for archaeological purposes, we obviously want as manyground points as possible in order to generate high‐resolution DTMs.The quality of the terrain model depends on the number of points thatactually hit the bare ground. LiDAR data are usually classified in off‐ground and ground points, but this part of the data processing is morecomplex than it might look at first sight. Algorithms are used, whichsuccessfully filter data with a high degree of reliability when the differ-ence between the first and last pulse is high. If the difference is low, forinstance between the top of shrub vegetation and the ground surface,the reliability of the filtering drops. So, although one of the mostimportant advantages of LiDAR compared to other remote sensingtechniques is its vegetation‐penetrating abilities, vegetation can inmany cases be a significant hindrance. As reported by Crow et al.(2007), vegetation porosity is poorest in areas with dense conifervegetation in terms of tree types, and in areas with tall understoreyvegetation like bramble and bracken fronds. These two types are inci-dentally mutually exclusive, as very dense canopies will prevent anyunderstorey vegetation from establishing in the shade on the groundbelow.The vegetation in our study area varies considerably, especially interms of density, but must overall be characterized as relatively open,mixed woodland (spruce, pine and birch) with some coppice, and withan understorey dominated by bilberry shrub. The latter can in someareas be quite dense and with a height of up to 30 cm. Generally,the area is well suited to laser scanning, but the understorey is in someareas so dense and tall that it represents a problem for determiningthe actual bare ground when the LiDAR data is processed. This mostlikely explains the relatively poor effect of scanning with high densityand small footprints. Irrespective of platform, better results might havebeen obtained by conducting the laser scanning in the leaf‐off season(as with deciduous trees and shrubs), a time where the undergrowth isalso sparse. In Norway this limits the survey season to late autumn orearly spring in order to avoid snow in the winter season. The dronescanning was carried out in July, and the 2007 data, which is usedTABLE 3 The measurements of the archaeological features included in the studyID CategoryFielddiameter0.7 point/m2diameter2 points/m2diameter22 points/m2diameterField height/depth 0.7 point/m2height/depth2 points/m2height/depth22 points/m2height/depth5 Grave mound 8 8.9 8.8 8.7 1 0.7 0.9 16 Grave mound 11 14.1 12.6 13.2 1.5 1.1 1.1 1.37 Grave mound 5.5 7 5.3 5.5 1 0.3 0.6 0.68 Grave mound 6 8 7 7 1 0.6 0.6 0.822 Grave mound 16.2 16.4 16.9 16.7 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.532 Grave mound 12 11.7 10.5 11.3 1.4 0.8 0.8 1.233 Grave mound 13 13.2 13.1 12.9 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.683 Grave mound 17 18.4 18 17.3 3 2.7 3.2 310 Charcoal pit 6 0 6 6 0.4 0 0.4 0.412 Charcoal pit 4.4 5 5.8 6.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.413 Charcoal pit 4.8 4.9 5 5.1 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.415 Charcoal pit 5.2 5 4.8 5.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.339 Charcoal pit 8.3 0 9.1 9.5 0.8 0 0.8 0.854 Charcoal pit 8.3 10.8 0 9.5 0.8 0.5 0 0.863 Charcoal pit 11.1 12.6 12.5 12 0.9 0.6 0.9 0.865 Charcoal pit 10.6 10.8 11.6 11.1 0.8 0.6 0.9 0.897 Charcoal pit 8.8 11.2 9.2 9.9 1 0.6 0.9 0.9113 Charcoal pit 9.6 14.8 12.5 9.5 0.6 0.8 0.5 0.7116 Charcoal pit 10.3 0 9.5 9.5 0.6 0 0.5 0.6125 Charcoal pit 9.7 5.9 9.1 9.3 1 0.4 0.7 0.5128 Charcoal pit 5.5 0 8.4 6.3 1.2 0 1.2 1.36RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN



for comparison under similar seasonal conditions, in August/Septem-ber. However, it cannot be ruled out that the variations in detectionsuccess might be explained by changes in the vegetation cover fromone mapping campaign to the next as a consequence of time, sincedetailed studies of vegetation were not carried out as part of thestudy. This is a potential flaw, but based on simple visual studies ofFIGURE 6 (a–d) these graphs illustrate the variations between the measurements of the archaeological features. The straight horizontal line isthe field measurements and the other lines indicate the deviations from these [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN 7



aerial photographs we can state that no marked vegetation changeoccurred throughout the period under consideration.The drone data were processed and classified by the data pro-vider, using their standard processing software Terrasolid TerraScan.This was also done deliberately in order to treat the new data inthe same way as the comparison data, since just comparison is thefocus of the present study. Detection success might increase if amore thorough processing is carried out by experts with competencein both the use of LiDAR and the mapping of archaeological featuresin forested areas, with a dedicated view on the purpose of the scan-ning: to detect as many archaeological features as possible. Also,there is reason to believe that the use of various visualization tech-niques such as Local Relief Model, Sky View Factor, etc. (see Kokalj& Hesse, 2017) would result in the identification of more features.As neither of these was used in the previous studies, such anapproach falls outside the scope of this paper. Yet, a next step infuture studies utilizing this LiDAR‐from‐drone data set could benew and improved processing and classification, including the useof different visualization techniques. This would provide a fairerassessment of the potential of LiDAR from drones, based on itsown premises.To sum up this section, the effect of using drones as a platformmust be characterized as modest in terms of detection success,although some improvement has been shown. These improvementsseem to be purely based on what one would expect from increasingthe ground point density from 10 to 22 points/m2, while any immediateeffect of smaller footprints is difficult to verify. Collecting high‐densitydata sets is not restricted to drone‐based laser scanning but is alsoobtainable with scanning from fixed‐wing aeroplanes or helicopters,as has been demonstrated, for instance, in an Irish example with 64points/m2(Shaw & Corns, 2011) and a Danish example where 45points/m2were collected (Olesen & Mauritsen, 2012).In addition to vegetation penetration abilities, one of the greatestadvantages of LiDAR is its usefulness for mapping human impact inthe form of identifying cultural features on a landscape scale. LiDARprovides a method for mapping large and inaccessible areas in a veryeffective manner. This enables a better understanding of past land-scape use and also creates unique possibilities for conducting studieswhere quantitative calculations are important, for instance in terms ofcharcoal production, iron production, mining industry, etc. In thatrespect, metric accuracy is important in order to generate a solidbasis for one's calculations. This study shows that working with ahigh‐resolution data set provides good conditions for this.The improvements related to the accuracy of documenting thephysical properties of the archaeological features are clearercompared to the detection success. The green line in Figure 6 (a–d) isgenerally closer to the horizontal orange line, which shows the fieldmeasurements. The average figures presented in Figure 7 speak forthemselves. Still, there are some variations and it seems that the posi-tive effect related to measurement accuracy is more pronouncedregarding the concave features than the convex ones. Challenges indocumenting the depths of archaeological features using LiDAR havebeen reported earlier and are explained by technical restraints (Risbøl,2010). A combination of scanner angle, depth of pits and the steepnessof their sides might result in an absence of ground points in narrow pits.Flying at a low altitude using a drone might be the explanation behindthe most pronounced increase in accuracy; that of measuring the depthof pits as shown in Table 4. The improved measurements can mostlikely be ascribed to an effect of smaller footprints and consequentlyan averaging of the echo signal over a smaller area.In contrast to the indoor computer‐based measurements, whichwere done systematically in terms of compass direction, informationconcerning cardinal points is missing from the field measurements. Thismight be a flaw, but given the fact that most of the archaeological fea-tures are circular we consider that the effect of this is restricted. Thus,we assess that the measurements from the fieldwork constitute a rea-sonable basis of comparison despite the lack of directional information.In this part of the study the drone data were compared to data fromwhat are considered to be more favourable parts of the season in termsof vegetation cover. This strengthens the results related to theimprovements of measurements accuracy, given the fact that the dronescanning was conducted mid‐summer with full vegetation blossom.The last part of this discussion is about the advantages anddisadvantages of using drones as a platform for laser scanning asopposed to the use of fixed‐wing aeroplanes or helicopters. Let usstart with the advantages. A drone is portable. It is easily transportedin a small van and it therefore represents a high degree of flexibility(Figure 8). Our first attempt to conduct the drone survey over ourstudy area was cancelled at the last minute due to a sudden shiftin weather conditions. The flying was postponed to the followingday, when it was carried out without any problems. This flexibilityalso makes drones an obvious choice if the area to be scanned issmall. In our case the study area was almost 2 km2and the flyingtime needed for full coverage was 57 minutes (29 minutes+ 28 minutes, with a landing between the two flights in order tochange the battery pack). For such a small operation it seems muchmore obvious to use a small and much more easy‐to‐handle platform.FIGURE 7 The average variation of accuracy. What is shown is thedeviation from the field measurements. 1, diameter grave mounds; 2,height grave mounds; 3, diameter charcoal pits; 4, depth charcoal pits[Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]TABLE 4 The average accuracy of measurements in percentage0.7 point/m22 points/m222 points/m2Diameter grave mounds 85.81 91.46 92.89Height grave mounds 70.94 77.61 89.05Diameter charcoal pits 54.95 78.71 89.74Depth charcoal pits 39.04 76.22 91.078RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN



Low flight altitude is undoubtedly an advantage compared to aero-plane or helicopter. Even though high point density is obtainablewith aeroplanes or helicopters as mentioned earlier, drone scanningoffers the possibility of mapping with extremely high resolution. Inone case, a point density of 1500 points/m2was acquired forforestry applications using LiDAR from a drone (Mandlburger et al.,2015). Flying at a low altitude should also guarantee a small laserfootprint, which was one of the reasons we initiated this test.Although the effect of this was limited in this study, at least in termsof detection success, there is still reason to believe that narrow foot-prints will allow for more real ground hits and thus provide high res-olution DTMs devoid of a larger percentage of shrub than is possiblewith conventional platforms with higher flight altitudes (Figure 9). Ifflying low is required but prevented by altitude restrictions, using adrone is an obvious choice with its potential for flying much closerto the ground than aeroplanes or helicopters. The scanning ofvertical and sloping surfaces has long been considered a challengein airborne LiDAR. The angle of the laser beam makes it inapplicablefor documenting vertical faces of features such as buildings, stonewalls, menhirs, etc. Drones, with their lower flying altitude, combinedwith their flexible manoeuvrability, overcome this challenge. Thescanning angle used in the present study was 90° (45° to each sidefrom vertical position) but the scanner used makes it possible to scanwith a field of view of 330° (Riegl, 2017).All these aspects show that drones have considerable advantagecompared to platforms usually used for airborne laser scanning, butthere are also some disadvantages that need to be addressed. Themost obvious is the fact that LiDAR from drones is much costlier thanscanning from conventional platforms, especially compared withfixed‐wing aeroplanes. Many factors influence the cost of a laserscanning mission, such as the size of the area, geographical location,the purpose of the scanning, the time of year, supply and demand,etc., but a rough estimate based on our experiences with the commis-sion of many LiDAR projects over the years, indicate that LiDAR fromdrones is currently 10 to 20 times more expensive as LiDAR fromaeroplane or helicopter. This situation is bound to change over time,as more demand for LiDAR from drones will result in more providersand thus more competition. There is also reason to believe that anincreased demand for this service will result in more companiesdeveloping and selling equipment, an aspect that will reduceinvestments in equipment and accordingly lower prices. This is awell‐known development when new technology is introduced to themarket and recognizable from when LiDAR was introduced almost20 years ago. Drone scanning is not suitable for mapping very largeareas. Battery capacity is still a restriction, as it only allows forapproximately 30 minutes in the air before one must land and changethe battery. It is possible to cover c.1km2in 30 minutes and there-fore approximately 15 km2in an ordinary working day. In most coun-tries there are regulations demanding line of sight, which means thatthe person operating the drone must have eye contact with the droneat any time when flying. This limits flying time and range, especially inforested areas where sight is limited by vegetation. Thus, the operatormust stand in an elevated spot or move around to find suitable placesthat allow line of sight. Moreover, drones are more vulnerable toweather conditions, especially strong wind, compared to larger, morestable platforms.4|CONCLUSIONThe test presented here has given useful experience with the use ofLiDAR from drones for archaeological purposes. LiDAR from dronesoffers a new and very interesting way of approaching remote sensingin archaeology. This is a pioneering test, which has demonstrated thatdrone scanning is promising but that new studies must be carried outin order to fully understand its real potential. There is still reason tobelieve that flying at a low altitude will result in better vegetationpenetration abilities and consequently improved possibilities for filter-ing the data in off‐ground and ground points –i.e. laser returns fromthe actual ground surface and not from the top of low vegetation. Sofar, price is perhaps the most limiting factor, in addition to challengesrelated to the efficient coverage of large areas. As long as line of sightis legally required in many places, this is probably the most severeobstacle in terms of practical hindrances. However, there is reasonto state that the emergence of LiDAR scanning from dronesFIGURE 8 The drone in a small van. Photograph: Ole Risbøl [Colourfigure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]FIGURE 9 This segment of the LiDAR‐from‐drone scanned areaillustrates the high‐resolution of the generated digital terrain model(DTM) containing a lot of information about human impact on thelandscape [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN 9



represents an important contribution to archaeological remotesensing and that we can expect a lot of interest in this opportunityin the years to come.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe authors would like to thank the Research Council of Norway(Norges Forskningsråd) for funding parts of the project. Without thisfunding the authors would not have been able to implement the test.The authors also extend their thanks to Håkon Andresen and ErikSundheim from Geomatikk Survey AS, Oslo, for flying this projectfor them and for giving valuable advice and also generously sharingtheir experiences with LiDAR scanning from drones.ORCIDOle Risbøl http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1891-1868Lars Gustavsen http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2442-2921REFERENCESBennett, R., Cowley, D. C., & De Laet, V. (2014). The data explosion:Tackling the taboo of automatic feature recognition in airborne surveydata. Antiquity,88, 896–905.Bennett, R., Welham, K., Hill, R. A., & Ford, A. (2012). A comparison ofvisualization techniques for models created from airborne laserscanned data. Archaeological Prospection,19(1), 41–48. https://doi.org/10.1002/arp. 1414Bewley, R. H., Crutchley, S. P., & Shell, C. A. (2005). New light on an ancientlandscape: LiDAR survey in the Stonehenge world heritage site.Antiquity,79, 636–647.Bollandsås, O. M., Risbøl, O., Ene, L. T., Nesbakken, A., Gobakken, T., &Næsset, E. (2012). Using airborne small‐footprint laser scanner datafor detection of cultural remains in forests: An experimental study ofthe effects of pulse density and DTM smoothing. Journal ofArchaeological Science,39, 2733–2743. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2012.04.026Campana, S. (2017). Drones in archaeology. State‐of‐the‐art and futureperspectives. Archaeological Prospection,24(4), 275–296. https://doi.org/10.1002/arp. 1569Challis, K., & Howard, A. J. (2013). The role of LiDAR intensity data ininterpreting environmental and cultural archaeological landscapes. InR. S. Opitz, & D. C. Cowley (Eds.), Interpreting archaeological topography.3D data, visualisation and observation (pp. 161–170). Oxford, UK:Oxbow Books.Charlton, M. E., Coveney, S. J., & McCarthy, T. (2009). Issues in laserscanning. In G. L. Heritage, & A. R. G. Large (Eds.), Laser scanning for theenvironmental sciences (pp. 35–48). Chichester, UK: Wiley‐Blackwell.Crow, P., Benham, S., Devereux, B. J., & Amable, G. S. (2007). Woodlandvegetation and its implications for archaeological survey using LiDAR.Forestry,80(3), 241–252.Doneus, M., Briese, C., Fera, M., & Janner, M. (2008). Archaeologicalprospection of forested areas using full‐waveform airborne laser scan-ning. Journal of Archaeological Science,35(4), 882–893.Fantoni, R., Barbini, R., Colao, F., Ferrante, D., Fiorani, L., & Palucci, A.(2004). Integration of two LiDAR flouro‐sensor payloads in submarineROV and flying UAV platforms. European Association of Remote SensingLaboratories. EARSeL e‐Proceedings, 3(1), 43–52.Kokalj, Z., & Hesse, R. (2017). Airborne laser scanning raster visualization. Aguide to good practice. Prostor kraj čas, 14. Ljubljana, Slovenia: ZaložbaZRC.Mandlburger, G., Hollaus, M., Glira, P., Wieser, M., Milenković, M., Riegl, U.,& Pfennigbauer, M. (2015). First examples from the RIEGL VUX‐SYSfor forestry applications. In Proceedings of SilviLaser 2015, 28–30September, La Grande Motte, France.Olesen, L. H., & Mauritsen, E. S. (2012). Skjulte fortidslandskaper i skov oghede afsløres med detaljerede laserscanninger. Holstebro MuseumsÅrsskrift, 2012, 24–40.Riegl. (2017). Retrieved from http://www.riegl.com/uploads/tx_pxpriegldownloads/RIEGL_VUX‐1UAV_Datasheet_2017‐09‐01.pdfRisbøl, O. (2010). Towards an improved archaeological record through theuse of airborne laser scanning. In M. Forte, S. Campana, & C. Liuzza(Eds.), Time and place: 3rd International Conference on Remote Sensingin Archaeology (pp. 105–112). Oxford, UK: Archaeopress.Risbøl, O., Bollandsås, O. M., Nesbakken, A., Ørka, H. O., Næsset, E., &Gobakken, T. (2013). Interpreting cultural remains in airborne laserscanning generated digital terrain models: Effects of size and shapeon detection success rates. Journal of Archaeological Science,40,4688–4700.Shaw, R., & Corns, A. (2011). High resolution LiDAR specifically for archae-ology: Are we fully exploiting this valuable resource? In D. C. Cowley(Ed.), Remote sensing for archaeological heritage management.EACOccasional Paper No. 5 (pp. 77–86). Brussels: Europae ArchaeologiaConsilium (EAC).Wallace, L., Lucieer, A., Watson, C., & Turner, D. (2012). Development of aUAV‐LiDAR system with application to forest inventory. RemoteSensing,4, 1519–1543. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs4061519How to cite this article: Risbøl O, Gustavsen L. LiDAR fromdrones employed for mapping archaeology –Potential, bene-fits and challenges. Archaeological Prospection. 2018;1–10.https://doi.org/10.1002/arp.171210 RISBØL AND GUSTAVSEN


Citations (0)References (22)This research hasn't been cited in any other publications.Airborne laser scanning raster data visualization: A Guide to Good PracticeBookFull-text availableMar 2017 Žiga Kokalj Ralf HesseThis guide provides an insight into a range of visualization techniques for high-resolution digital elevation models (DEMs). It is provided in the context of investigation and interpretation of various types of historical and modern, cultural and natural small-scale relief features and landscape structures. It also provides concise guidance for selecting the best techniques when looking at a specific type of landscape and/or looking for particular kinds of forms.

The three main sections – descriptions of visualization techniques, guidance for selection of the techniques, and visualization tools – accompany examples of visualizations, exemplar archaeological and geomorphological case studies, a glossary of terms, and a list of references and recommendations for further reading. The structure facilitates people of different academic background and level of expertise to understand different visualizations, how to read them, how to manipulate the settings in a calculation, and choose the best suited for the purpose of the intended investigation.ViewShow abstractDrones in Archaeology. State-of-the-art and Future Perspectives: Drones in ArchaeologyArticleFeb 2017ARCHAEOL PROSPECT Stefano CampanaIn addition to traditional platforms for low-level remote sensing (balloons, kites, etc.) new and more complex automated systems [unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones] have become available in the last decade. The success and market expansion of these platforms has been a driving force in the development of active and passive sensors specifically designed for UAVs. In the last few years archaeologists have started testing both platforms and sensors, particularly for the following applications: three-dimensional (3D) documentation of archaeological excavations; 3D survey of monuments and historic buildings; survey of archaeological sites and landscapes; exploratory aerial survey; and the archaeological survey of woodland areas. The scale of these applications has ranged from site-based to landscapes-based (approximately up to about 10 km2 in extent). The role of such platforms in the archaeological survey of excavations and landscapes, and in diagnostics more generally, is of great interest and is inexorably growing. CopyrightViewShow abstractLaser Scanning for the Environmental Sciences: Issues in Laser ScanningChapterFull-text availableDec 2009 Martin Charlton Seamus Coveney Timothy MccarthyViewThe data explosion: Tackling the taboo of automatic feature recognition in airborne survey dataArticleFull-text availableSep 2014ANTIQUITY Rebecca Bennett David Cowley Véronique De LaetThe increasing availability of multi-dimensional remote-sensing data covering large geographical areas is generating a new wave of landscape-scale research that promises to be as revolutionary as the application of aerial photographic survey during the twentieth century. Data are becoming available to historic environment professionals at higher resolution, greater frequency of acquisition and lower cost than ever before. To take advantage of this explosion of data, however, a paradigm change is needed in the methods used routinely to evaluate aerial imagery and interpret archaeological evidence. Central to this is a fuller engagement with computer-aided methods of feature detection as a viable way to analyse airborne and satellite data. Embracing the new generation of vast datasets requires reassessment of established workflows and greater understanding of the different types of information that may be generated using computer-aided methods.ViewShow abstractThe role of lidar intensity data in interpreting environmental and cultural archaeological landscapesArticleJan 2013 Keith D Challis Andy J. HowardViewFirst examples from the RIEGL VUX-SYS for forestry applicationsConference PaperFull-text availableSep 2015 Gottfried Mandlburger M. Hollaus Philipp GliraMartin PfennigbauerHighlights: Very high point density UAS-based laser scanner point clouds of an alluvial forest acquired with the RIEGL VUX-SYS were analyzed w.r.t. forestry applications. With point densities >1500 points/m² and accuracies <2 cm the study shows that individual stems and branches, understory, lying deadwood, and the terrain are clearly represented in the 3D point clouds.ViewShow abstractInterpreting cultural remains in airborne laser scanning generated digital terrain models: Effects of size and shape on detection success ratesArticleDec 2013J ARCHAEOL SCI Ole RisbølOle Martin BollandsåsAnneli Nesbakken Terje Gobakkena b s t r a c t In this study, detection success rates were evaluated for cultural remains that were detected manually based on interpretation of digital terrain models (DTM) derived from airborne laser scanning data and with a resolution of 1, 5 and 10 points m À2 . The group of cultural remains included charcoal kilns, charcoal pits, hollow-roads, various pits, house foundations, tar kilns, grave mounds and pit-falls. The effects on the interpretation success of different types of cultural remains and their physical properties were studied: size, shape and elevation difference showing that the detection success rates varied considerably. The main tendency was that large cultural remains with clear geometrical shape (ovals and circles) and large elevation difference were much more successfully detected and classified compared to the smaller ones, especially those without a clear geometrical shape. The study also showed that it was the identification of the larger structures which profited most from an increased resolution of the DTM, and it was of no help to increase resolution in order to improve the identification of the irregularly shaped cultural remains.ViewShow abstractA Comparison of Visualization Techniques for Models Created from Airborne Laser Scanned DataArticleJan 2012 Rebecca Bennett Kate Welham Ross Hill Andrew FordThe uptake of airborne laser scanned (ALS) data (commonly known as airborne lidar) for heritage landscape assessment has grown rapidly in the past decade as data have become increasingly available. Likewise there has been a recent upsurge in published techniques for modelling the ground surface from ALS data to highlight archaeological features. However, many end-users of the data are not trained in remote sensing and visualization techniques and the lack of comparative assessment of techniques has increased the complexity of interpretation of the ALS-derived models. This study quantitatively compares five visualization techniques ranging from the commonly used shaded relief model to newer local relief and sky view factor modelling for a study area in the UK. Outputs are compared with the baseline data of the English Heritage National Mapping Programme aerial photographic archive transcription and assessed with respect to percentage visibility of feature length. Ancillary aspects of the outputs are discussed, such as geospatial shift of features, suitability for profile mapping, ease of interpretation and ability to combine with other data sources. It is concluded that although the overall performance of the models in terms of feature recognition is relatively even, consideration of all factors enables more transparent modelling choices to be made and facilitates critical interpretation of the features recorded.ViewShow abstractUsing airborne small-footprint laser scanner data for detection of cultural remains in forests: An experimental study of the effects of pulse density and DTM smoothingArticleAug 2012J ARCHAEOL SCIOle Martin Bollandsås Ole Risbøl Liviu Theodor Ene Erik NæssetCultural remains are laborious to register by means of field surveys. Thus, in recent years several trials using remote sensing data to detect cultural remains have been carried out. The most promising remote sensing technique for such purposes is airborne laser scanning (ALS) from which digital terrain models (DTM) that enable visual interpretations of anomalies on the ground are generated. Although it has been documented previously that ALS is a powerful data source for detection of cultural remains, it has not yet been carried out studies that focus on the effects of the point density of the ALS data and properties of the subsequent generation of the DTM on the detection success of cultural remains. Thus, this study aimed at analyzing these effects by letting four experienced archeologists interpret DTMs generated from ALS data with point densities of 1 p m−2, 5 p m−2, and 10 p m−2, each with three different levels of DTM smoothing. The experiment was conducted according to a randomized complete block design and the analyses were carried out using analysis of variance. The results showed that there was a significant improvement in the detection success when the point density was increased from 1 p m−2 to 5 p m−2. There were also some improvements when increasing the point density further to 10 p m−2, but they were less pronounced. Furthermore, the results showed that the DTM smoothing did not have any significant effect on the detection success.ViewShow abstractIntegration of two lidar fluorosensor payloads in submarine ROV and flying UAV platformsArticleFull-text availableJan 2004Roberta FantoniR. Barbini Francesco Colao Antonio PalucciStrategic lines of international organizations have recently converged on the need to have a reli- able, distributed, and independent net dedicated to environmental monitoring. In this framework the survey of marine ecosystems, which is a problem of primary importance in ecological control due to the high probability of accidental risks, deserves particular attention. Coastal waters must be considered a major target for this kind of surveillance, with accidental oil-tanker releases, pos- sible unauthorized industrial wastes - including dangerous organic pollutants (PCB, dioxins, PAH) - and anthropogenic discharges (DOM and detergents). At the ENEA remote sensing laboratory the former development of ship-borne lidar fluorosensors led to the design of submarine and flying payloads. A compact underwater apparatus was realized and already tested in the XVII Italian Antarctic Expedition on the coastal area of the Ross Sea near terra Nova Bay, where the instrument was used as a payload of a Remotely Operated Vehi- cle (ROV) both from a pack-located station and from a small boat. The technical layout and char- acteristics of the submarine lidar fluorosensor will be presented and discussed, together with pre- liminary results collected during immersions. In different marine contests this instrument can be dedicated to various underwater studies (oceanography, marine biology, glaciology, sedimentol- ogy) and to the identification of extraneous objects at the sea bottom (industrial wastes, archeo- logical remains) or to the identification of oil spill releases and residuals. A second instrument, cur- rently under development, consists of a lightweight flying payload, to be installed on an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) for large sea surface and territory monitoring.ViewShow abstractShow moreJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for freeRecommendationsDiscover more publications, questions and projects in DronesProjectArchaeological Prospection in Norway Lars Gustavsen Immo Trinks Christer Tonning[...] Arne Anderson StamnesThe goal of the project is to collect information on projects using geophysical methods and techniques in Norway.  View projectProjectFictive project to circumvent annoying ResearchGate feature Lars GustavsenView projectTechnical ReportFull-text availableBruk av luftbåren laserskanning (lidar) i arkeologienSeptember 2016 Ole Risbøl Lars GustavsenView full-textArticleFull-text availableTowards an improved archaeological record through the use of airborne laser scanningJanuary 2010 Ole RisbølThe archaeological survey situation in Norway is rather uneven because it is largely settled farmland areas that have been the object of systematic survey campaigns. The archaeological records for forests and other outfield areas are very flawed, which makes proper cultural heritage management of these areas difficult. This paper outlines how airborne laser scanning (ALS) can contribute to an ... [Show full abstract] improvement in the situation. The advantages and challenges of using ALS are discussed and analysis of statistics from two completed ALS projects shows how large a percentage of the cultural remains it is possible to detect, to what degree we have succeeded with interpretation of the digital elevation models and the accuracy of remote sensing based documentation of the remains. The conclusion is that ALS can successfully be used to conduct remote sensing based surveys and documentation of cultural monuments and remains with competitive accuracy in all kinds of landscape. Forest and outfield areas which so far have been given little attention can now be surveyed efficiently and improve research and cultural heritage management.View full-textPosterFull-text availableEVALUATION OF LIDAR VISUALIZATION TECHNIQUES FOR ARCHAEOLOGICAL PROSPECTION AT MAMMOTH CAVE NATIONAL...October 2013 John Wall D. R. Bohnenstiehl George Crothers Markus DotterweichA variety of Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) visualization techniques to aid in archaeological prospection at Mammoth Cave National Park are evaluated. Over the past decade the number of visualization techniques for archaeological prospection has increased dramatically thereby allowing more anthropogenic features to be detected. As such, this poster presents a variety of techniques both ... [Show full abstract] historically used (e.g. hillshading) as well as more recent (e.g. Principal Component Analysis and Sky-View Factors). Techniques are evaluated on their ability to visualize potential anthropogenic features ranging from pre-historic sites to settler homesteads to park infrastructure. The prefered visualization is determined by the highest number of detections. A resultant dataset containing anthropogenic features from all visualizations is then evaluated against auxiliary datasets including aerial photography, park infrastructure, soil types and geologic lithologies to determine possible causes.View full-textArticleFull-text availableNow You See It… Now You Don’t: Understanding Airborne Mapping LiDAR Collection and Data Product Gene...October 2014 · Remote Sensing Juan Carlos Fernandez-Diaz William Carter R. L. Shrestha Craig GlennieIn this paper we provide a description of airborne mapping LiDAR, also known as airborne laser scanning (ALS), technology and its workflow from mission planning to final data product generation, with a specific emphasis on archaeological research. ALS observations are highly customizable, and can be tailored to meet specific research needs. Thus it is important for an archaeologist to fully ... [Show full abstract] understand the options available during planning, collection and data product generation before commissioning an ALS survey, to ensure the intended research questions can be answered with the resultant data products. Also this knowledge is of great use for the researcher trying to understand the quality and limitations of existing datasets collected for other purposes. Throughout the paper we use examples from archeological ALS projects to illustrate the key concepts of importance for the archaeology researcher.View full-textDiscover moreLast Updated: 10 Jan 2019Download citationWhat type of file do you want? RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download? Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadInterested in research on Drones?Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest research from leading experts in Drones and many other scientific topics.Join for freeorDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back! Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account? Sign upAboutNewsCompanyCareersSupportHelp centerFAQBusiness solutionsRecruitingAdvertising© ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.ImprintTermsPrivacy