https://apsystems.tech/en/team/
team - aps - advanced protection systemsPlToggle navigation companyabout usteamawardssolutionsprivate property / VIPsgovernment and militaryairportsprisonsstadiums and arenascritical infrastructurepublic eventsU-spacectrl+skywhy Ctrl+Sky? how Ctrl+Sky works? productsctrl+sky stationaryctrl+sky portablectrl+sky jammerctrl+sky mobilesoftware platform Ctrl+Sky CyViewcase studiesdistributionnewscompanyworldmediamedia about usdownloadcontactfor investorsfor investorsmarketPlHome » teamabout usteamawardsteamWhat makes Ctrl+Sky so unique is the fact that our team is made up of leading specialists, top engineers, scientists and mathematicians,  in their fields. Our company is rooted in engineering and we focus on practical application. As we build our team, we focus on specific employees skills and potential for innovation. Diversification and interdisciplinarity are important to us in order to be able to constantly seek a competitive advantage in every field we are active in. “we adhere to a simple principle: we work with the best, because we want our system to be the best”maciej klemmceo & co-founder“we believe that unique competencies translate into unique solutions”radoslaw piesiewiczcoo & co-founder“we are constantly looking for solutions which define us as the innovators setting new standards”michał spychalskichairman of the supervisory boardboardWhat makes APS a unique company is the fact that its founders and management have scientific knowledge gained at prestigious universities in Poland and abroad, and combine it with sound business practices. A mix of such competences ensures APS a place among the global leaders in the anti-drone industry. maciej klemmceo & co-founderMaciej is a Lecturer and Associate Professor at the Faculty of Electronics at the University of Bristol in the United Kingdom. He has a Masters in Microwave Engineering and Optical Communication from the Gdańsk University of Technology. He obtained his doctorate from the Elektorniki Laboratory at the ETH in Zurich, Switzerland. moreXAt APS, he is responsible for the coordination of the engineering team as well as developing and creating new products. Senior Lecturer (American Associate Professor) at the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering at the University of Bristol. In 2003 he joined the Electronics Laboratory of ETH Zurich, Switzerland, where after three years he obtained a doctorate in electronic science. In 2006 he joined the University of Bristol in the United Kingdom. In 2007 he won the Best British Research Engineer competition. In 2015, Maciej decided to use his unique expertise in practice, co-founding Advanced Protection Systems. radoslaw piesiewiczcoo & co-founderRadoslaw has over 10 years experience in acquiring and managing scientific projects on an international scale. A graduate of the Faculty of Electronics, Communication and Computer Science at the Gdańsk University of Technology. He has a PhD in telecommunications at the University of Technology in Braunschweig (Germany)moreXOperational processes, business development and sales are his primary responsibilities. With the development of his career, he became head of broadband and wireless networks at Create-Net in Italy. In 2009 he moved to Wrocław, where he managed large innovation projects, moving to the position of Director of the Center for Research and Development of ICT in Wroclaw’s EIT + Center. In 2015 he co-founded the Advanced Protection System, where he successfully combines scientific, specialised knowledge with business experience gained in managing innovative projects. michał spychalskichairman of the supervisory boardExperienced practicioner in the management of complex investment and development projects. As a business angel and visionary, he is constantly looking for innovation and competitive advantages. moreXAt APS, he oversees research projects financed by European funding programmes and supports activities in the field of Business Development. He graduated from SGH Warsaw School of Economics and College of Europe as well. He has an experience in managing companies and complex investment and development projects. He is also a business angel. In 2015, Michal he took a position of Vice President of the Management Board at Advanced Protection Systems. Previously, for over 5 years he was the Vice President of the Management Board of Renco Investments Sp. z o.o. and supervised projects in the field of renewable energy. He acts as a Board Member in the Jagiellonian Institute. teamEvery member of the Advanced Protection System team is exceptional. Not only due to their outstanding skills and experience, but also to their unprecedented passion and dedication. Thanks to this attitude we are positive that the solutions we create are as perfect as possible. monika langowskamarketing managerMonika has experience in conducting marketing activities and the implementation of multi-channel promotional campaigns. michał widloklead systems engineerMichał designs digital and analogue electronic circuits and integrated elements for microwave radars. He is also experienced in the area of high powered electronic systems. piotr kamińskilead hardware engineerPiotr designs electronic radio systems, predominantly radar sensors. He has writtenfor a number of publications, including international scientific journals. paweł recławlead software engineerPawel is a programmer proficient in many languages (including C, C ++, Java, C #). He has worked on the development of distributed applications, created networks andadministered IT equipment and systems. andrzej paprotalead signal processing engineerAndrzej spends his time programming real-time radar systems. He deals with object tracking algorithms in three-dimensional space. radosław raklead mechanical and system integration engineerRadoslaw specialises in the overall design of electromechanical systems, from power supply and control to measurement systems, through design and optimising production. wayne horvathus market business developmentWayne is responsible for co-creating the operational strategy on the American market, developing and maintaining business relations with key clients as well as promoting the brand and sales development in the USA. About usSolutionsCtrl+SkyDistributionNewsMediaContactFor investorsprivacy policy  © 2017 Advanced  Protection Systems. All rights reserved. Projekt finansowany przez Narodowe Centrum Badań i Rozwoju w ramach Programu Operacyjnego Inteligentny Rozwój 2014-2020 Ta strona korzysta z ciasteczek aby świadczyć usługi na najwyższym poziomie. Dalsze korzystanie ze strony oznacza, że zgadzasz się na ich użycie.Zamknij