https://southerncrossdrones.com/aps-ctrl-sky.html
APS-CTRL+SKYHOMESOLUTIONSPARTNERSTRAININGNEWSROOMABOUT USCONTACTCtrl+Sky by Advanced Protection SystemsAn innovative technology to prevent the threat posed by intrusive dronesCtrl+Sky is the advanced drone detection and neutralisation system. Ctrl+Sky has many competitive advantages which makes it the most advanced product on the market. From the complete multi-sensor configuration of the system, the price-to-performance ratio, to the patented, unique sensors. Combining scientific approach with practical application and focusing on maximising efficiency makes Ctrl+Sky a global market leaderThe world’s only drone detection system featuring:﻿​• Modular and fully reconfigurable radar sensor• MIMO radar technologies for improved detection accuracy• Radar tracker based on MHT (multi hypothesis tracking) algorithm• Acoustic sensor with direction-finding capability• Operating in all weather conditions• Detecting drones with RF communications disabled• Reliable operation in urban areas• Available in stationary and mobile versionsAdvantagesRadar Sensor﻿​Detects all commercial and hobbyist drones﻿​Works in all weather conditions﻿​Determines the exact position of the drone﻿​Minimises the number of false alarms﻿​Available in different ranges (from 300m to 2km)Acoustic Sensor﻿​No direct line-of-sight required for proper operation﻿​Determines the direction of acoustic signals﻿​Classification of objects (drone vs no-drone)RF Sensor﻿​Robust operation in urban areas﻿​Early warning of nearby dronesVision Sensor﻿​Visual confirmation of detected drones﻿​Machine-learning based classification of objectsUnmatched system performance with multi-sensor approach:• Operation in all weather conditions, both day and night• The best value for money in the market• Purchase or Leasing options for customers • Detection of autonomous drones• Detection of drones with RF communication disabled• Precise localisation of dronesFunctionality                            ﻿​﻿​All weather operation﻿​Detects drones with no RF signature﻿​Non-line of sight detection﻿​Reliable operation in urban density areas    ﻿​Enhanced performance with sensor data fusion﻿​Detection of wide range of threatsRFSensor                            √﻿​﻿​﻿​√AcousticSensor                            ﻿​﻿​√﻿​√Ctrl+SkySensor                            √﻿​√﻿​√﻿​√﻿​√﻿​√How it works? Thanks to the multi-sensor approach, Ctrl+Sky enables efficient detection, identification and neutralization of drones, day and night, in all weather conditions. Ctrl+Sky offers a scalable system approach to ensure a complete “dome” of protection from unwanted drone invasion. System operationThe combination of patented radar, acoustic, vision and RF sensors allows Ctrl+Sky to minimise false alarms and detect even small drones at distances up to 2000 meters. The FMCW radar sensor operates in the X band and uses MIMO technology to locate drones. Ctrl+Sky uses the most advanced radar tracker based on MHT algorithm. The system can distinguish drones from other flying objects, such as birds. The acoustic sensor is based on 8-element microphone array that uses digital beamforming technique to accurately localize sound sources in 3D space. Advanced, machine learning based classification algorithms discriminate between drones and other objects. Video cameras register recordings of detected drones, so it is possible to present hard evidence of an intruder in a protected area. The RF Sensor detects radio-link between a drone and remote control-station by identifying radio frequency (RF) signatures of Wi-Fi signals. The RF sensor detects a targeted radio signal, identifies it and with Ctrl+Sky software allows neutralization of unwanted drones. By using multiple RF Sensors the drone operator can also be localized. Ctrl+Sky Jammer is an optional element of the system. Jammer is used to neutralize drones by overpowering drone’s receivers. Its use is restricted to a group of customers with appropriate permissions. Ctrl+Sky Stationary﻿​Ctrl+Sky Stationary is designed to permanently protect a defined area. The Ctrl+Sky Stationary design is based on a high, stable mast that is installed in the optimum location for the best possible operation of the system. In the Stationary system, different types of cameras are used, depending on clients’ needs. Alternatively, the CCTV cameras already installed and used on the client’s object can be integrated with Ctrl+Sky system. Also included in the Ctrl+Sky Stationary is the server unit (processor unit) that is used to process the data and manage the entire system. The server unit can be located as far as 100 meters from the sensor mast. Ctrl+Sky Mobile﻿​The mobile version is characterised by the ability to be easily moved and quickly assembled at the destination. Instead of a mast, the lightweight, functional tripod is used. With this, Ctrl+Sky Mobile can protect selected areas for a limited time, such as during special events and gatherings, such as charity runs and marathons, music festivals and concerts or sporting events. Ctrl+Sky Mobile is equipped with a “battery pack” that allows you to power the system if you do not have access to a power supply. Ctrl+Sky Jammer﻿​The Ctrl + Sky offer includes a professional, effective and advanced Jammer produced by our partner, HP Marketing & Consulting. It allows direct neutralisation of intrusive drones by intercepting and forcing them to land immediately. The jammer drowns communication channels in the 2400 – 2483.5 MHz and 5725 – 5875 MHz bands, as well as GPS navigation in the 1559 – 1610 MHz band. The device we have used directional antennas with circular polarisation and 3dB beam width of 15 degrees. The Jammer operates at an output of 0.5 W for GPS and 3 W for 2.4 and 5.8 GHz respectively. The effective range of the jammers is up to 1000 m. The device is available in both stationary and handheld versions of the traditional weapon. Both variants allow for radio interference between the dron and the operator and GPS / GLONASS / Galileo signals. Download Product BrochuresCtrl+Sky General Information BrochureCtrl+Sky Stationary BrochureCtrl+Sky Mobile BrochureCtrl+Sky Radar BrochureMORE INFORMATION AND PURCHASING Southern Cross Drones have partnered with Advance Protection Systems to offer counter drone solutions in Australia and New Zealand. For more information about Advance Protection Systems products or to request quote please contact us at sales@southerncrossdrones.comCONTACTSouthern Cross Drones Pty Ltd101 Miller Street - Level 32North Sydney - NSW 2060Australia Tel +61 2 9953 8366Fax +61 2 9953 5875101 Miller Street - Level 32North Sydney - NSW 2060Australia Tel +61 2 9953 8366Fax +61 2 9953 5875ABN: 39 071 205 340CASA ARN: 1027483Copyright © 2017 Southern Cross Drones Pty Ltd . All Rights ReservedCopyright © 2017 Southern Cross Drones Pty Ltd . All Rights Reserved