This information is from https://www.robinradar.com/elvira-anti-drone-system







Elvira Anti Drone System - 360° Coverage and more.. | Robin Radar






















radar systems






/files/elvira-6.jpg







Affordable. 360-degree coverage. Fast-tracking. Fully automatic drone classification.
ELVIRA®















ELVIRA® combines smart software, with affordable radar, and is built explicitly for drone detection and tracking.  For early warning of incoming drones, you need radar. Simply put, no other sensor technology has a wider coverage area than radar. ELVIRA® provides you with early warning of approaching drones, in all directions, giving you precious time to react. 
 




The ability to detect drones in the distance is not enough though. Drone detection systems need to work in low visibility conditions, and in urban environments full of obstacles, moving objects, and a just about infinite amount of wireless radio devices.
Drones can be pre-programmed for autonomous flight with no operator and can approach in swarms. Any drone detection system should, therefore, be capable of detecting multiple targets simultaneously. And they should not rely on the drone and controller radio signals, which are only present when the drone is actively controlled.
Last but not least, any drone detector needs to distinguish drones from other moving objects, like birds, to avoid false alarms.
ELVIRA® is our purpose built drone detection radar, specifically designed to meet all of these challenges.
In fact, our ELVIRA® radar is so easy to set-up and use that you'll be detecting and tracking drones within minutes.
ELVIRA's map-based interface is comprised of colour coded tracks. Red tracks indicate drones and their flight path. Orange tracks represent suspected drones. Green tracks represent birds and other moving targets. All track types can be toggled on and off, and the track visualisations and colours are all user configurable. Google Earth imagery is used as background mapping as standard and is automatically downloaded when connected to the Internet.
You can integrate ELVIRA’s tracks and alarms as a layer in your own existing, or 3rd party, security systems and Command and Control (C2) systems. A simple XML broadcast based interface is included with ELVIRA® as standard. Other protocols, e.g. ASTERIX, are available on request.
 




As a user, you can define virtual zones depending on your own particular use-cases. You can cause both visual and acoustic alarms to be triggered when a drone is detected and classified. And for the more complex environments or scenarios, you can also trigger alerts only when a drone enters a specific alarm area, which you define by yourself. Also, for the cases where you have deployed your own drones, you can determine safe zones, where drone detections will not cause alarms.
ELVIRA® is camera ready, so you can easily add the camera system of your choice. The radar’s micro-Doppler capability provides the necessary confirmation that a target has mechanical propulsion. Users typically require a visual picture of the target to take further action. ELVIRA® can be equipped with a high-resolution pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) camera for visual confirmation of the target. When a drone is detected, the camera zooms into its direction for a controller to acquire an image and report details.
Looking for that ‘silver bullet’? The black box that will detect, track, classify, and safely take out a swarm of bad-guy drones? Too bad. We hate to disappoint you, but there really is no ‘silver bullet’. Counter-drone solutions differ per case and require integration of various systems and technologies.
We believe in the power of cooperation between companies, based on the integration of modular systems. ELVIRA® is designed to be the preferred primary radar within a ‘system of systems’. Ready for integration with other detection systems, existing command centres and new forms of intervention.















































ELVIRA® Specifications




Technology
FMCW


Frequency
9650MHz X-Band


Average Power Output
4W


Scan Type
Mechanical


Rotation / Scan Speed
45rpm / 1.3s


Instrumented Range
5km


Classification Range (e.g. DJI Inspire)
1.1km


Detection Range (e.g. DJI Inspire)
3km


Azimuth Coverage
360-degrees


Elevation Coverage
10-degrees (-5 to +17-degrees adjustable)


Beam Width
10-degrees


Beam Height
10-degrees


Position Accuracy (Azimuth)
1-degree


Position Accuracy (Elevation)
-


Position Accuracy (Distance)
0.6m


Dimensions
918mm diameter, 1060mm height


Weight
79kg


Power
230VAC, 50Hz, max. 3A or 24VDC


Communication
Ethernet, 1000base-T


Ingress Protection 
IP53


Operational Humidity
95%


Operational Temperature
-20 to +50 degrees C


Storage/Transport Humidity
95%


Storage/Transport Temperature
-30 to +60 degrees C



 










Share













“As front-runner in radar ornithology, we want to work with state-of-the-art technology. We think Max is the most advanced avian radar of its time.”
EELCO WAARDENBURG, DIRECTOR AT BUREAU WAARDENBURG





“I am convinced that avian radar will become a self-evident part of next generation bird strike mitigation policies at larger civil airports. In part, because it allows us to objectively measure and use risk as a performance indicator, rather than the rare occurrence of incidents.”
BART STRAVER, MANAGER BIRD CONTROL AT AMSTERDAM SCHIPHOL AIRPORT

 


“The Mainport Innovation Fund stimulates start-ups with innovative and sustainable products in aviation. ROBIN Radar has developed a system which detects birds at great distances.”
Peter Hartman, (former) CEO of KLM





“Military aircraft fly low, fast and are extra sensitive for bird strikes. ROBIN systems are linked to our existing air defence radars to identify bird intensities up to 150 kilometres. Since we've started using this information, we've reduced the number of bird strikes by over 50%.”
Lt. Gen. Sander Schnitger, Commander Royal Netherlands Air Force

 


“With this technology, ROBIN meets the growing need for more accurate and real-time information about movements of (large) birds in the vicinity of the airport.”
Jos Nijhuis, CEO of Schiphol Airport





“Bird strikes are an increasing safety and economic concern.”
Mr. Y. Wang, Chief Aerodrome Section ICAO

 


“Balancing wild life protection and passenger safety by reducing the bird strike risk needs an open dialogue between all involved. That should be based on facts. Avian radar has the capability to provide unbiased facts and is thus a vital element for the decision making process.”
Captain Rob van Eekeren, executive director World Birdstrike Association





“Having full 3D capabilities is crucial for us. That’s why we chose Max.”
Camilla Rosenquist, Wildlife Manager at Copenhagen Airport

 


“If you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it.”
Richard Dolbeer, Wildlife consultant





“ESA uses a win–win approach that promotes the added value of space in a fair and unbiased way, and supports the development of sustainable space-based services for the benefit of society. The successful operational outcome has proven that this can play a fascinating role in bringing together user interests and communities.”
Amnon Ginati, head of department at ESA about the ROBIN success story

 






Interested in our ELVIRA® Drone Detection Radar?
Let’s get in touch













Markets


Aviation
Wind Farms
Drone Detection






Products


2D Lite
3D Fixed
3D Flex
Max®
Elvira®






Projects


Amsterdam Schiphol Airport
Berlin Brandenburg Airport
Kavarna Wind Farm
Tahkoluoto Wind Farm
Guardion Modular Drone Defence System
Meritis Integrated Drone (uav) Defence






Press


News
Blog
Downloads
Press releases
Videos






About us


Mission and Ambition
Our History
Our partners
Code of conduct
Team

Terms & Conditions:

Sales
Purchase

 





Contact

Robin Radar SystemsLaan van Waalhaven 3552497 GM The HagueThe NetherlandsT +31(0)8 8700 8700info@robinradar.com
Reg: 27371517
VAT: NL822016321B01
















Menu















Home

Markets
Aviation
Wind Farms
Drone Detection


Products
Projects

Press
News
Blog
Downloads
Videos


About Us
Jobs
Team
References
Contact





Robin Radar SystemsLaan van Waalhaven 3552497 GMThe HagueThe NetherlandsT +31(0)8 8700 8700info@robinradar.com
Reg No: 27371517
VAT No: NL822016321B01















Robin Radar makes use of the following third party tools which use cookies: Homerun for recruitment and LinkedIn and Youtube for company promotion. Click here for more information about our privacy policy
I understand













 
