This information is from https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07703





[1901.07703] Micro-UAV Detection and Classification from RF Fingerprints Using Machine Learning Techniques































Donate to arXiv

      Please join the Simons Foundation and our
      generous member organizations
      in supporting arXiv during our giving campaign. 100% of your contribution will fund
      improvements and new initiatives to benefit arXiv's global scientific community.
    



DONATE
[secure site, no need to create account]









We gratefully acknowledge support fromthe Simons Foundation and member institutions.




arXiv.org > eess > arXiv:1901.07703





Help | Advanced Search




All fields
Title
Author
Abstract
Comments
Journal reference
ACM classification
MSC classification
Report number
arXiv identifier
DOI
ORCID
arXiv author ID
Help pages
Full text




Search









Full-text links:
Download:

PDF
Other formats
(license)



Current browse context:
eess.SP


< prev
 | 

  
  
next >


new |
    recent |
    1901
Change to browse by:

eess




References & Citations

NASA ADS



Bookmark
















Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing



Title:Micro-UAV Detection and Classification from RF Fingerprints Using Machine Learning Techniques
Authors:Martins Ezuma, Fatih Erden, Chethan Kumar Anjinappa, Ozgur Ozdemir, Ismail Guvenc

  
  
  
    
  
  
    
    
  

  (Submitted on 23 Jan 2019 (v1), last revised 10 Apr 2019 (this version, v2))
Abstract:  This paper focuses on the detection and classification of micro-unmanned
aerial vehicles (UAVs) using radio frequency (RF) fingerprints of the signals
transmitted from the controller to the micro-UAV. In the detection phase, raw
signals are split into frames and transformed into the wavelet domain. A Markov
models-based naive Bayes approach is used to check for the presence of a UAV in
each frame. In the classification phase, unlike the traditional approaches that
rely solely on time-domain signals and corresponding features, the proposed
technique uses the energy transient signal. This approach is more robust to
noise and can cope with different modulation techniques. First, the normalized
energy trajectory is generated from the energy-time-frequency distribution of
the raw control signal. Next, the start and end points of the energy transient
are detected by searching for the most abrupt changes in the mean of the energy
trajectory. Then, a set of statistical features is extracted from the energy
transient. Significant features are selected by performing neighborhood
component analysis (NCA) to keep the computational cost of the algorithm low.
Finally, selected features are fed to several machine learning algorithms for
classification. The algorithms are evaluated experimentally using a database
containing 100 RF signals from each of 14 different UAV controllers. The
signals are recorded wirelessly using a high-frequency oscilloscope. The data
set is randomly partitioned into training and test sets for validation with the
ratio 4:1. Ten Monte Carlo simulations are run and results are averaged to
assess the performance of the methods. All the micro-UAVs are detected
correctly and an average accuracy of 96.3% is achieved using the k-nearest
neighbor (kNN) classification. Proposed methods are also tested for different
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) levels and results are reported.





Comments:
12 pages. To be presented in 2019 IEEE Aerospace Conference


Subjects:

Signal Processing (eess.SP)

Cite as:
arXiv:1901.07703 [eess.SP]


 
(or 
arXiv:1901.07703v2 [eess.SP] for this version)
          






Submission history From: Fatih Erden [view email]
      
[v1]
  Wed, 23 Jan 2019 03:14:21 UTC (1,175 KB)[v2]
Wed, 10 Apr 2019 18:41:28 UTC (1,175 KB)


Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax (What is MathJax?)
      Browse v0.2.1 released 2019-04-18
  Feedback?












About arXiv
Leadership Team




 Contact Us
 Follow us on Twitter










Help
Privacy Policy




Blog
 Subscribe








arXiv® is a registered trademark of Cornell University.


If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format,
        contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.




