This information is from https://www.robinradar.com/elvira-radar-combined-with-acoustic-detection-and-swissdrone-jamming-system







Drone Detection Radar with Acoustic Detection | Robin Radar






















radar systems






/files/project-meritis-3.jpg







Meritis Integrated Drone (UAV) Defence
ELVIRA® Radar Combined with Acoustic Detection and Swiss Drone Jamming System

















Meritis, from Switzerland, has included our ELVIRA® Drone Detection Radar in their integrated Drone Defence System.




Their full system combines radar, acoustic sensors, and cameras, for comprehensive detection, tracking and identification. It also comes with a mobile command and control (C2) unit., and a sophisticated drone jamming system is provided to neutralise any detected drones.
The jammers operate with reactive technology, which has a superior performance to only active systems. The range of jamming can be up to 10 times higher compared to only active systems.




Meritis' jammers have a sensor unit observing traffic on pre-defined frequencies. Within milliseconds the system intercepts the total traffic including encoded signals with the full available power. A system only operating with an active mode has to split the overall power capabilities.
Meritis has recently released a new rifle based portable jamming unit as an optional extra for the system.




















































Share













Interested in our drone tracking systems?
Let’s get in touch













Markets


Aviation
Wind Farms
Drone Detection






Products


2D Lite
3D Fixed
3D Flex
Max®
Elvira®






Projects


Amsterdam Schiphol Airport
Berlin Brandenburg Airport
Kavarna Wind Farm
Tahkoluoto Wind Farm
Guardion Modular Drone Defence System
Meritis Integrated Drone (uav) Defence






Press


News
Blog
Downloads
Press releases
Videos






About us


Mission and Ambition
Our History
Our partners
Code of conduct
Team

Terms & Conditions:

Sales
Purchase

 





Contact

Robin Radar SystemsLaan van Waalhaven 3552497 GM The HagueThe NetherlandsT +31(0)8 8700 8700info@robinradar.com
Reg: 27371517
VAT: NL822016321B01
















Menu















Home

Markets
Aviation
Wind Farms
Drone Detection


Products
Projects

Press
News
Blog
Downloads
Videos


About Us
Jobs
Team
References
Contact





Robin Radar SystemsLaan van Waalhaven 3552497 GMThe HagueThe NetherlandsT +31(0)8 8700 8700info@robinradar.com
Reg No: 27371517
VAT No: NL822016321B01















Robin Radar makes use of the following third party tools which use cookies: Homerun for recruitment and LinkedIn and Youtube for company promotion. Click here for more information about our privacy policy
I understand













 
