url: https://cloud.drone.io/



Drone
















Cloud


Enterprise


Plugins


Support


Login







Continuous Integration,Free for the Open Source Community
Drone Cloud is a free Continuous Integration service for the Open Source community,
                    powered by blazing fast bare-metal servers.
                
Login
Read the Docs




Accelerating Open Source Development





Multiple Architectures
Our goal is to upstream all the things! In order to do that with the diverse Arm ecosystem, we're providing gobs of CI/CD infrastructure.


Blazing Fast, Bare Metal Servers
Drone Cloud runs your Continuous Integration workloads on blazing fast, bare metal infrastructure owned by Packet.


100% free for Open Source
Drone Cloud would not be possible without our generous sponsors. If you are interested in becoming a sponsor please contact us.







Thank you to our Infrastructure Sponsor
Drone Cloud is powered by a donated infrastructure from Packet (www.packet.com), the leading bare metal cloud for developers. With 18+ datacenters around the world, and a powerful API driven experience, Packet is well known for bringing the experience of the cloud to bare metal.
Want to run Drone on bare metal, but without the hassle? Packet can help! Use code "DRONE100" to get started with a $100 credit
Learn more about Packet






Interested in running Drone on your own, private infrastructure?
Download official Docker image
and install Drone in minutes







Company


Contact



Branding


License




Products


Drone Enterprise


Drone Cloud


Drone Autoscaler




Developers


Documentation


Plugins


Support




Community



GitHub icon
                                    GitHub
                                



Twitter icon
                                    Twitter
                                



Discourse icon
                                    Discourse
                                



Slack icon
                                    Chat
                                