url: https://english.nctv.nl/current_topics/news/2015/Protectionfromunmannedmobilesystems.aspx




















	National Coordinator for Security and Counterterrorism | Protection from unmanned mobile systems














Go to
 content
or
menu






Search within this site












You are here:
Home
Current Topics

Protection from unmanned mobile systems





Protection from unmanned mobile systems
News item | 3-8-2015 | 10:18
Detecting or neutralising drones early on can help us manage the threat posed by these unmanned mobile systems. Four companies have been commissioned by the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Royal Military and Border Police and the National Police to develop and market products which do exactly that. They will showcase their solutions in mid-2016.


Drones have become relatively cheap and easily available. They can be used to disrupt public order or smuggle contraband into restricted areas. The question is: what can we do to prevent this? So the Veilig door Innovatie (Secure through Innovation) programme has challenged businesses to come up with solutions. This joint venture by the National Coordinator for Security and Counterterrorism (NCTV), the Royal Military and Border Police and the National Police is part of the Ministry of Security and Justice’s new innovation policy. Thirteen feasibility studies have now been carried out and the four best proposals have been selected. Two proposals – from Robin Radar Systems and Microflown – focus on detecting and identifying drones, while the proposals from COBBS Industries and Delft Dynamics focus on controlled drone neutralisation, i.e. disrupting and/or capturing them.


Detecting and neutralising
Detection is the first step in tackling drones. Robin Radar Systems is developing a long-distance radar system that detects and identifies drones using the ‘line of sight’ principle. From a high vantage point, radar can cover a large area, but Microflown is developing a solution for places which cannot be easily reached, like spaces between buildings. It involves listening for drones: even in noisy urban environments, Microflown wants to make it possible to hear drones and determine their exact location.But, of course, once you know where a drone is, you also need to be able to do something about it. That is where the countermeasures proposed by COBBS Industries and Delft Dynamics come in. COBBS Industries is developing a system which uses high-power microwave technology to disrupt drones. In the feasibility study, the company showed that this technology can be used to safely deactivate drones. Delft Dynamics’ system, on the other hand, uses a net launched from its own drone: the Delft Dynamics drone approaches the ‘hostile’ drone and captures it. All four proposals were considered promising enough to be selected for prototype development.


SBIR innovation competition
The NCTV has made €1.75 million available for this innovation competition, which is being coordinated by the Netherlands Enterprise Agency (RVO.nl) through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) programme. The programme involves the government identifying a specific challenge and making a budget available for solutions. The focus is on social issues that require innovative solutions. Challenges are outlined in a call for proposals and the Netherlands Enterprise Agency then asks private sector players to come up with ideas and suggestions. The best proposals move through to the next stage: feasibility studies. Following this, businesses can submit a quotation for developing a prototype. The proposals with the best quotations are selected for actual prototype development.This particular SBIR competition focuses on protection from drones – unmanned systems with a wide range of uses, not all of them well-intentioned.For more information, please email sbir@rvo.nl.






Menu

HomeCurrent TopicsOrganisationTopics A-Z







Service



				Contact



						RSS



								Sitemap




About this site



										Privacy statement



												Cookies



														Accessibility




Languages


Nederlands


















*.english.nctv.nl
false
https://sscict.piwik.prisma-it.com/piwik/
64