url: https://bettstetter.com/research/uav/








Communications and Path Planning of Drones – Christian Bettstetter








































Christian Bettstetter
Professor, Networked and Embedded Systems, Klagenfurt

Menu


Search

Search


 

Bio

Team
Alumni
Committees
Media Coverage


Research
Publications
Lectures

Electricity and Magnetism
Mobile Communications and Networks


Talks
Advice
 
Close Menu






Communications and Path Planning of Drones




We develop solutions for wireless communications and flight path planning in multi-drone systems with application in disaster management and aerial transport. Methods range from algorithm design to experimental performance analysis with networked drones in the air.
Small drones fly routes in an autonomous manner, carry cameras for aerial photography, and transport goods from one place to another. The terms “unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)” and “flying robot” are often used as synonyms for a drone. The spectrum of applications is broad, including aerial monitoring of industrial plants and agriculture fields as well as support for first time responders in case of disasters. For some applications, it is beneficial if a team of drones rather than a single drone is employed. Multiple drones can cover a given area faster or take photos from different perspectives at the same time. The development of such multi-drone systems is still at an early stage, such that profound research efforts are needed. 
A team of professors with their groups in Klagenfurt has been working on multi-drone systems since 2008. They have developed solutions for wireless networking, movement path planning, distributed decision making and cooperation, aerial imaging, and, more recently, autonomous navigation. Research has covered novel algorithms, system-level emulation, and in particular experimental performance evaluations with drones in the air. The applications in focus are aerial area monitoring, search and rescue, and delivery of goods. Public funded projects include cDrones (2008-2012), SINUS (2013-2015), SOSIE (2013-2015), Forest iMate (2016-2018), and a Karl Popper Science Kolleg in networked autonomous aerial vehicles (2017-2020). In this context, Christian Bettstetter and his team have been mainly working on wireless communications, path planning, and job selection.  
Activities started in 2008 with the development of a prototype system for aerial surveillance to assist a rescue team in case of a disaster was developed. Image processing had to deal with the challenge of low altitude aerial photography. The developed software was successfully demonstrated at a series of events, including a firefighter drill. The project team has developed a system that provides functionality similar to Google Earth and Microsoft Virtual Earth but capturing small areas with much higher resolution: A user first outlines the area of interest on a map. Small drones fly over the specified area, take images, and provide an accurate and up-to-date overview picture of the environment. “Our solution requires mission planning and coordination for multiple aerial vehicles,” explains senior researcher Markus Quaritsch. The system computes the flight routes for the individual drones taking into account the maximum flight time due to battery constraints. A flight route consists of a sequence of waypoints specified in GPS coordinates, the flight altitude, and a set of actions for every waypoint such as taking a photo, setting orientation. The drones autonomously fly according to the computed plan without any need for human interaction. The drones are equipped with different sensors (e.g., thermal camera, conventional photo camera) to build a multi-layered overview image. The pictures taken are pre-processed on board the drone and sent to the ground station during flight. At the ground station the individual pictures are mosaicked to a large overview image. The pictures show significant perspective distortions due to the low altitude of less than 150 meters. Under guidance of Bernhard Rinner, the team has developed and patented an incremental approach for computing the overview picture that provides quick feedback to the user and is geometrically correct and visually appealing at the same time.


The real-world applicability of the system is a major objective. It was demonstrated several times in coordinating fire fighters performing service drills. “We recently participated in a large-scale forest fire exercise in the Austrian-Slovenian border region,” Quaritsch says. “Other demonstrations included the monitoring of a large construction site near Vienna and the observation of an industrial accident”. 

Postdoctoral researcher Evsen Yanmaz and PhD students Samira Hayat and Raheeb Muzaffar have worked with Bettstetter on solutions for wireless communications in multi-drone systems. From a communications viewpoint, a drone network is a mobile ad hoc network with air-to-ground and air-to-air links, where the wireless nodes are moving in three-dimensional space. Yanmaz explains: “Our real-world experiments showed that off-the-shelf IEEE 802.11 systems lead to poor performance, but some antenna modifications make the system work.” The performance of different IEEE 802.11 technologies—such as 802.11a, 11s, 11n and 11ac—has been evaluated by real-world measurements, and a multicast video streaming approach for drones has been developed. 
A higher-layer issue is the role of communication in the planning of flight paths of drones and its adaptive online replanning. “We consider three phases of a search and research mission,” PhD candidate Samira Hayat says, “the search for a lost person, the notification of a ground station, and the maintenance of a communication path with a certain quality of service.” The algorithm, which was developed in collaboration with Timothy X Brown from Carnegie Mellon, can be tuned to give priority to a certain phase and tells us the optimum number of drones to be used in the mission.  
Another PhD student, Pasquale Grippa, has been studying the concepts for employing a network of drones for delivery of goods. This service becomes an option if classical means of transportation, like trucks, trains, and planes are inappropriate. First, this comes about if roads, railway tracks, or landing facilities do not exist, if natural disasters make it impossible to use them, or if their use is too dangerous or too time-consuming. In this context, a compelling service would be the delivery of medicine, vaccinations, or laboratory samples for patients in remote areas and crisis regions. Second, such a service is also worthwhile in densely populated metropolitan areas, when congestion makes roads nearly impassable. In an interdisciplinary team with Friederike Wall and Doris Behrens, Bettstetter and Grippa analyzed job selection policies that control how an interconnected team of drones resolves service requests that are randomly distributed in space and time. The entities of the system are goods, customers, vehicles, and depots. Customers request goods that are stored in depots and delivered by vehicles. Service requests, also denoted as jobs or customer demands, are not known in advance and arrive over time for certain locations according to a space-time stochastic process. Instead of applying a centralized scheduler that intends to optimize the performance, the team employs a set of rules to be run in each vehicle. “Such a distributed approach is required if no central control entity is available,” Behrens states. In this sense, the system’s “intelligence” is literally embedded into each vehicle, meaning that each vehicle decides by its own which job to select next, thus raising the autonomy of vehicles to a level that goes beyond autonomous flying. Grippa is fascinated by the multidisciplinary aspects of his work. “It involves multi-agent systems, scheduling, logistics, queuing theory, and others,” he says.

Selected Publications

Drone delivery systems: job assignment and dimensioning
Autonomous Robots, Special Issue on Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), February 2019
Shows how to dimension and control, at the system level, a fleet of drones delivering goods from depots to customers.
Drone networks: Communications, coordination, and sensing
Ad Hoc Networks, January 2018
Describes an architecture for a collaborative aerial system consisting of drones with on-board sensors and embedded processing, coordination, and networking capabilities.
Application-driven design of aerial communication networks
IEEE Communications Magazine, May 2014
Describes the communication requirements raised by applications in drone networks and discusses the capabilities of existing communication technologies to fulfill these requirements.
Achieving air-ground communications in 802.11 networks with three-dimensional aerial mobility
IEEE INFOCOM, April 2013
Proposes an antenna knack for 802.11 devices and analyzes the path loss, fading, and throughput of air-to-ground links via real-world measurements.


Additional Publications

A performance evaluation tool for drone communications in 4G cellular networks (under review)
An experimental evaluation of LTE-A throughput for drones
Handover challenges for cellular-connected drones
Live multicast video streaming from drones: an experimental study
Interference management for cellular-connected UAVs: a deep reinforcement learning approach
Deep reinforcement learning for interference-aware path planning of cellular connected UAVs
Multi-objective UAV path planning for search and rescue
Job selection in a network of UAVs for delivery of goods
Application-layer rate-adaptive multicast video streaming over 802.11 …
Communication and coordination for drone networks
Experimental analysis of multipoint-to-point UAV communications with IEEE 802.11n and 802.11ac
An autonomous multi-UAV system for search and rescue
Experimental performance analysis of two-hop aerial 802.11 networks
Channel measurements over 802.11a-based UAV-to-ground links
On path planning strategies for networked unmanned aerial vehicles
A discrete stochastic process for coverage analysis of autonomous UAV networks
Area coverage with unmanned vehicles: a belief-based approach
Collaborative microdrones: applications and research challenges





Team Torsten Andre, PhD student
Christian Bettstetter, Professor
Pasquale Grippa, PhD student
Samira Hayat, PhD student
Raheeb Muzzafar, PhD student
Arke Vogell, PhD student
Vladimir Vukadinovic, PostDoc
Evsen Yanmaz, PostDoc

Collaborators Timothy X Brown, Carnegie Mellon
Andrea Cavallaro, Queen Mary, London
Hermann Hellwagner, Klagenfurt
Bernhard Rinner, Klagenfurt
Walid Saad, Virginia Tech
Angela Schöllig, U Toronto
Friedrike Wall, Klagenfurt
Stephan Weiss, Klagenfurt

PostsUnmanned aerial vehicle communications: Opportunities and challengesDecember 11, 2018“Drones are here to stay. Get used to it.”October 2, 2018One time for all: Synchronizing time in drone swarmsFebruary 14, 2018Packages delivered by air: Drones as delivery serviceJanuary 12, 20185G Playground CarinthiaSeptember 30, 2017Drones get to grips with planning the delivery of goodsJuly 12, 2017How visible is Austria at major robotics conferences?June 7, 2017Visit and drone talk at CARRE TorontoApril 30, 2017Three German mobility startups to watchDecember 31, 2016A year in the life of Lakeside LabsDecember 22, 2016Networking research challenges in multi-UAV systemsDecember 12, 2016“I develop drone networks for life-saving applications”November 7, 2016Communication demands of drone applicationsMay 24, 2016WIRED: Samira Hayat about dronesJanuary 21, 2015Job selection in UAV-based delivery servicesJuly 31, 2014Interview with Samira HayatJune 24, 2014Wireless technologies for small UAV systemsJune 12, 2014Research days: Multi-UAV systemsJuly 15, 2013UNIsono interviews BettstetterJune 30, 2013Successful completion of cDrones projectDecember 19, 2012Project kickoff: Decision making in networks with errorsDecember 17, 2012Colloquium in honor of EberspächerDecember 10, 2012Aerial imaging with small UAVsJuly 10, 2012Science minister Töchterle visits Lakeside LabsMarch 7, 2012Der Standard interviews BettstetterFebruary 15, 2011Science night in KlagenfurtOctober 28, 2010Use case for unmanned aerial vehiclesApril 15, 2010Microdrones: Night flight, project startJanuary 9, 2009 

During my guest professorship ... I was very impressed by the potential of this young and upcoming research group.
 Mubarak Shah  

Funding 
Carinthian Economic Promotion Fund (KWF), 2008–2015

Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG), 2016–2018

Related Tweets In motion: Video transmission by mobile drones https://t.co/jxSyzkSDWL pic.twitter.com/TIUFj1wipk— Robohub (@Robohub) October 7, 2016 
Performing rescue missions with drone networks: Interview with Samira Hayat https://t.co/UBWpN916Nc pic.twitter.com/sjl4wvSAFt— Robohub (@Robohub) April 13, 2016 


Professor, Networked and Embedded Systems, Klagenfurt

Follow Me
Twitter
Google Scholar
LinkedIn
Medium
YouTube
RSS
 


Contact | Media Kit | Photos | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Archives | Brochures Networked and Embedded Systems and Lakeside Labs. Also visit Self-Organizing Systems and Dronehub K.© 2015-19 Christian Bettstetter | ORCID