https://www.aaronia.com/news/
News      German French Spanish    Spectrum Analyzers    Antennas    Signal Generators    Shielding    GPS Logger    Solutions    Software    Downloads    About us    News    Forum    Shop    Position:Home »News  Stay connected to the latest news and information from Aaronia  Here you can find product videos, press releases, pictures and lots of new products. Follow us also at Facebook /Google Plus /Twitter /LinkedIN  NATO summit was protected against Drones by Aaronia's Anti-Drone System AARTOS Aaronia's Drone Detection System has been the exclusive RF-based Counter-UAV System to protect the 2018 NATO summit. Download this article as a .PDF here! Brussels, Belgium, July 13, 2018 - The Belgium Police has selected the AARTOS counter-UAV system to protect the 2018 NATO summit from the growing threat posed by unmanned aircraft systems. Multiple AARTOS systems have been used e.g. positioned at the roof of the NATO headquarters and on top of the Triumphal Arch in Brussels Jubelpark, the place where the NATO delegation had dinner. Thorsten Chmielus, CEO, Aaronia AG, said: “We are proud to have secured yet another major International summit.” This contract with the Belgium Police follows the successful mission deployment of multiple AARTOS systems during the Trump/Kim Summit in June 2018. “AARTOS is fully automatic and developed so we have been able to meet the Belgium Police´s rapid delivery timescale” added Thorsten Chmielus. As the only RF-based detection system, meeting 100% of the technical requirements of the Police, with a special focus on multi target high range detection in urban environments, the choice to choose the AARTOS system has been an easy one. The AARTOS system can detect, track, identify and defeat a drone in approximately 3 seconds at a range of up to 15 km or 9 miles. AARTOS detects even multi band drones using RF detection in real-time before using a radio frequency (RF) jammer to defeat the drone. A fully integrated, long range auto target tracking camera backs up the RF detection and is used to verify the drone type and payload. Using Aaronia AARTOS Sector Jammer Solutions, the operator can effectively take control of a drone and force a safe landing. The AARTOS system is military grade, designed and proven to operate in harsh environments. It works in all weather, day or night and the disruption is flexible, proportional and operator controlled. AARTOS systems are in use by various government agencies, the police and military to protect high value critical national infrastructure and personnel or strategically important sites/events. These include nuclear power stations, borders, political or VIP events, airports and airbases. The AARTOS detect-track-identify and defeat C-UAV system was released to the market in 2015 and already is offered in its 3rd generation with the 4th generation to hit the market end of 2018. In 2017 over 50 systems have been deployed, while Aaronia already received more than 300 new orders for 2018. Aaronia's AARTOS Drone Detection Systems protects the summit meeting of Kim Jong Un and Donald Trump  Aaronia AG, the advanced RF and MW technology company based in Strickscheid, Germany, published the use of their AI based Drone Detection System “AARTOS” at the historical meeting of Kim Jong Un and Donald Trump. Photo from Wikipedia. The fully automatic drone detection system AARTOS detects the RF emission of any drone and its remote control and offers a live situation awareness display incl. highly featured 3D flight plots. Aaronia AG CEO, Thorsten Chmielus said: "We’re overjoyed to be a part of this historical and unique event to provide protection against drones. We are pleased that once again the inimitable capabilities of the AARTOS Drone Detection System are gaining in importance internationally." The AARTOS system offers a unique ultra-high range (10-15km) 360 degree dome coverage. The detection technology is based on the patented AARONIA ISOLOG 3D Tracking Array Antenna, a UWB real-time Rf receiver “SPECTRAN V5” and a highly complex AI based Tracking-Software. The AARTOS Drone Detection System allows very detailed analysis of any RF emissions e.g. “hopping” patterns of drones but also any other RF signals e.g. cell phones enabling to detect even the latest 4G based drones . The rapid proliferation of micro/mini UAV is a growing potential threat to national and commercial security. As the use of drones becomes more and more commonplace, safety and reliability are of enormous importance. Drone Detection Systems are gaining in importance because of the increasing number of illegal drone entering areas (e.g. major events, airports, …). For safety, the position of the drones needs to be tracked by their RF emission. The user of the drone will also be detected by the emission of the remote control. The sales figures of this systems are expected to grow rapidly over the next few years. Aaronia moves to new headquarters! Aaronia has moved! Due to our constant growth in turnover of 30% on average per year for the last five years, the time has come to expand our capacities. We have built large new headquarters with a sizable warehouse. On a total area of almost 40000 square meters, we now have enough space for our new production, research and development facilities, including an EMC & calibration center. Additionally, we now have the greatly needed training-rooms with enough space to teach our customers how to effectively use our products. We want to thank all our customers, partners and employees – without you all of this wouldn’t be possible! Starting from the 12th February 2018, we can be reached at our new address: Gewerbegebiet Aaronia AG II (Dorfstrasse 10a), DE-54597 Strickscheid, Germany  Our new phone number is: +49(0)6556 9019 355  E-mails and fax numbers remain the same. Drone Detection Competition in China  At the end of June our CEO, Mr. Thorsten Chmielus, and our Chinese partner ZTHY participated in the exclusive China Radio Management Committee – Drone Detection Competition, an event to test different drone detection systems available on the market and grade their effectiveness in separate categories. CERTIFICATE Above you can see the certificate issued by the China Radio Management Committee, which shows the perfect results the Aaronia Drone Detection System achieved in all categories – including Drone Detection, Operator Detection and Jamming. MEETING The excellent results for Aaronia lead to an exclusive meeting between our CEO and the National Radio Monitoring Center Director, Vice Chairman of the China Communications Society, Chief Engineer Li Jingchun who has been engaged in electromagnetic compatibility analysis, radio frequency planning, radio monitoring and other new technology research. TEAM We are very thankful to the ZTHY team for their hard work preceding and during the event! Isotropic 3D Antenna - IsoLOG 3D Mobile (9kHz-6GHz) (3rd March 2016)   Aaronias ultra wide band Isotropic Antenna (9kHz-6GHz) coming soon! The isotropic "IsoLOG 3D Mobile"   RF antenna is a "plug and play" solution for ANY spectrum analyzer. Needs NO software installation, NO power connection, NO hardware changes - To get an isotropic RF measurement just connect it to the  N-connector of your existing spectrum analyzer - Done! Just works on the fly like magic! Stay tuned, more to come soon...    ULTRA LOW NOISE 10GHz Broadband RF Preamplifier with 25dB Gain "UBBV-0910" (20th January 2016) Our battery powered "UBBV-0910" offers an ultra-low Noise Figure of only 0,6dB below 6GHz! The perfect choice for any spectrum analyzer to catch even the lowest signal within the complete ISM, GMS, 3G, Wifi or 4G bands from 9kHz up to 10GHz. It also offers an ultra-low power consumption: The integrated rechargeable battery offers a ultra-long operation time of up to 35 hours! Stay tuned, more to come soon...  Datasheet:     If you are interested - send us an email at mail@aaronia.de   Drone Detection with "RTSA Suite" Software & SPECTRAN V5 (19th January 2016)The first video shows the "Aaronia RTSA Suite" with powerful Drone-Detection-Software controlling a SPECTRAN V5 real time spectrumanalyser and IsoLog 3D tracking antenna The Drone-detection plugin offers a real time 8fold or 16fold Spectrogram view for every antenna/sector for easy RF signal direction tracking. Powerful 3D filter will be available soon offering a drone database for automatic drone type detection and alarm function. Stay tuned, more to come soon! SPECTRAN V4 Remote 19" Spectrum Analyzer Hardware Upgrade (11th January 2016) The new SPECTRAN V4 remote 19" Now offers an optional RF-Generator up to 6GHz and up to 4 RF inputs (switchable; 1 frontside, 3 backside) e.g. for remote antenna selection. The integrated PC hard drive memory can now be expanded with SSDs up to 16TB, the latest i7 CPU, USB 3.0, GSM modem and a super heavy cooling rib on the top (expandsthe form factor from 1HE to 2HE) for highly extended temperature range. SPECTRAN V5 RTBW up to 175MHz (07th January 2016) The Game Changer! Aaronia boosts the SPECTRAN V5 RTBW to incredible 175MHz! Our patent pending design now offers up to 175MHz RTBW. This is even better than the latest160MHz real time band width (RTBW) which only super expensive benchtop units could offer so far. See the video demonstrating the huge difference to "regular" 27MHz or 40MHz RTBW available from USB remote units so far:  SPECTRAN V5 Real-Time Spectrum Analyzer Series (10th July 2015) SPECTRAN V5 Real-Time Spectrum Analyzer Series - Available soon   Further Information about the upcoming V5 series can be found in our Forum   If you are interested in the SPECTRAN V5 please send an email to mail@aaronia.de     Antenna Review (01st July 2015) Review: The Aaronia BicoLOG 30100X and HyperLOG 7060 EMI antennas   An interesting Review about the Aaronia BicoLOG30100X and HyperLOG 7060 can be found here. RF / EMC Camera System (19. Feb. 2015) World's first RF / EMC Camera System  Aaronia presents the world's first RF / EMC “camera system”, the SPECTRAN RF VIEW.The system consists of a complex measurement unit at each "pixel". Each unit consists of a Spectrum Analyzer from the SPECTRAN RSA series and connected isotropic broadband antenna which are all connected via network to a central server.The antennas are arranged in equal distance in an X / Y grid. The measurement data (amplitude and/or frequency) are visualized as a "chessboard-display". Each field of the chessboard represents a measurement unit. An RF camera with 8x8 points (64 pixels resolution) requires 64 measurement units that way.This resolution seems to be rather small but already allows amazingly detailed measurements of antenna spreading characteristics or the graphical classification of radiated emissions during an EMC test. The SPECTRAN RF VIEW saves considerable measurement time and allows very detailed information on the spreading patterns of emissions. The system can be extended to any size in order to reach much higher resolutions and is already successfully in use for research purpose and product evaluation of a leading telecommunications provider.The system price is, despite the massive hardware insert, amazingly low. A 32 pixel system with 6GHz range is already available for less than € 100,000. Versions with up to 20GHz bandwidth will also be available against higher charge. A real-time version, based on the latest SPECTRAN® V5 real time spectrum analyzer generation, is scheduled for 2015. The next evaluation step is the extension to a 3D camera system (additional Z-axis) to obtain more complex information. If you are interested in the SPECTRAN RF VIEW, please send an email to mail@aaronia.de    NEW Magnetic Tracking Antenna Series "MDF" (07. Jan. 2015) New Aaronia Antenna series "MDF" (9kHz - 400MHz) . The MDF is a Magnetic Tracking Antenna and Field Strength Test Antenna, available in 5 different versions, covering max. 9kHz to 400MHz.This Broadband Magnetic Antennas can be used for signal tracking and field strength measurements and fit to almost any Spectrum Analyzer. If you are interested in the MDF, please send an email to mail@aaronia.de  Further information, technical data and prices can be found in our  Online Shop    Impressions from the EMC/China (22. - 31. October 2014, Shanghai)Visit Aaronia during the Electronica 2014 in Munich / Germany (11. - 14.11.2014)Come to Munich and visit Aaronia AG at the Electronica 2014   Come and see a LIVE demonstration of our novelties: Our latest generation of Real-Time handheld Spectrum Analyzer V5 and V4 series The new Aaronia RF-Generator, Worlds smallest, battery powered 14GHz RF GeneratorOutdoor RF / EMC Spectrum Analyzer Monitors with IP67/68 classificationAaronia MDF Magnetic Field Tracking Antennas from 9kHz to 400MHzAaronia Near Field ProbesAaronia Antennas & Sensors (DC to 18GHz)EMC low noise Preamplifier (up to 40dB & 20GHz)And much more..   New Horn Antenna Series "PowerLOG" (17.07.2014)Aaronia presents the new Horn Antenna Series PowerLOG (700MHz - 18GHz)   The new, double ridged Horn Antennas offer a very high max. input level of up to 500W (peak) and a high gain of up to 17dBi. Further information & direct order at ourShop     OmniLOG 30800 - 300MHz to 8GHz (23. June 2014) Available now: OmniLOG 30800 - Ultra Broadband Antenna The OmniLOG 30800 is the extended version of the OmniLOG 70600 and now covers an extremely broad frequency range of 300MHz to 8GHz Further information & direct order at ourShop     Aaronia GPS Logger (20. May 2014) Available now: Aaronia GPS Logger incl. Gyro/Tilt Sensor, Compass, Accelerometer, USB, µSD  Further information & direct order at ourShop     NEW: SPECTRAN HF-XFR PRO - Ultra rugged Outdoor Spectrum Analyzer (07.03.2014)Check out the new ultra rugged Spectrum Analyzer SPECTRAN HF-XFR PRO. The XFR PRO is the world´s most rugged Spectrum Analyzer with incredible Hardware Spec´s. More details HERE  New Shielding Fabric Aaronia Shield ULTRA (03. Dec. 2013) High performance shielding fabric Aaronia Shield ULTRA. Comparable to the conventional Aaronia Shield, but with a higher damping factor of up to 70dB and non-oxidizing. Perfect for shielding of window surfaces indoors and even outdoors. Can be used ideal for construction of EMC test chambers or bug-proof conference rooms due to the extremely high damping factor. We recommend the use in combination with the shielding fleece Aaronia X-Dream. More Information can be found here  If you are interested in the Aaronia Shield Ultra, please send an email tomail@aaronia.de    NEW OmniLOG 70600 Antenna (22. Nov. 2013) The OmniLOG Antenna Series will soon be extended with the OmniLOG 70600 (680MHz - 6GHz) . This new, omnidirectional Antenna works up to 6GHz, instead "only" 2,5GHz like the established OmniLOG 90200. If you are interested in the OmniLOG 70600, please send an email to mail@aaronia.de  Further information can be found in the Forum   NEW: IsoLOG 3D (21. Nov. 2013) Isotropic RF Tracking Antenna "IsoLOG 3D" coming soon! Our new IsoLOG 3D will soon be available. It includes a high density LPDA sector array (A total of at least 16 HyperLOG 60180 antennas, 8 for horizontal and 8 for vertical polarization, each antenna covering a complete 45 degrees sector) in a water protected radom (perfect for car or roof mounting) offering a perfect isotropic 360 degrees RF tracking with super high sensitivity. More Information can be found in ourForum  Also have a look at the Press Article (German)If you are interested in the IsoLOG, please send an email to mail@aaronia.de    New stainless steel shielding material Aaronia Mesh (04. July 2013) Aaronia presents the new Shielding material Aaronia mesh, made of high-tech stainless steel fibers. Ideal for industrial applications as well as for military, research and development. Aaronia mesh has been specially designed for use under extreme conditions (salt air, extreme temperatures, vacuum, etc.). Further information can be foundhere If you are interested in the Aaronia Mesh, please send an email to mail@aaronia.de User Feedback of Aaronia MCS Software (19. June 2013) A User Review to the Aaronia MCS Software can be found at:  http://www.kaltmancreationsllc.com/rf-analyzers/new-aaronia-spectran-mcs-software-helps-with-high-end-multiple-frequencies/   More Information & Download Link for the MCS Software:Aaronia MCS   NEW Magnetic Tracking Antenna MagnoTRACKER (15. June 2013) Magnetic Antenna  "MagnoTRACKER" (1Hz-1MHz) coming soon  A lot of customers have problems detecting and pin pointing signals in the low frequency range from 1Hz to 1MHz. They want ONE! small antenna with high gain to cover the FULL frequency range. The antenna should also offer a high directivity to pin point the signal(s). Till today such an antenna simply did not exist. Aaronia soon offers world´s first patent pending magnetic antenna "MagnoTRACKER", combining all those features. Further information can be foundhere If you are interested in the Aaronia MagnoTRACKER, please send an email tomail@aaronia.de   New low frequency Amplifiers / UBBV Series extended (07. March 2013) Aaronia presents 2 new, low frequency amplifiers from 1Hz up to 30/60MHz with 25dB and 35dB gain:  - UBBV-NF-25 (1Hz - 60MHz, 25dB)- UBBV-NF-35 (1Hz - 35MHz, 35dB) If you are interested in the UBBV NF series please send an email to mail@aaronia.de   Impressions from the EMV 2013 Stuttgart, Germany (05. March 2013) Thank you for visiting our booth at the EMV 2013 in Stuttgart! Impressions of the exhibition can be found at: http://www.aaronia.com/fairs/emv-2013-stuttgart-germany/  Visit us again in 2014 on the EMV Fair in Dusseldorf (11 - 03/13/2014). Remote controllable Spectrum Analyzer SPECTRAN RSA (28. Feb. 2012) Aaronia presents the new SPECTRAN RSA Series, the remote controllable 19" Rack-Mount Spectrum Analyzer  - SPECTRAN NF RSA 5000 (1Hz - 1MHz)- SPECTRAN HF RSA 6000 (10MHz - 6GHz)- SPECTRAN HF RSA 9000 (1MHz - 9,4GHz) Here you can find the Press Release  If you are interested in the SPECTRAN RSA, please send an email tomail@aaronia.de      Online ShopForumBasicsTerms & ConditionsDisclaimerContactSitemap Gewerbegebiet Aaronia AG II, 54597 StrickscheidPhone: +49 6556 9019 355 Fax: +49 6556 93034www.aaronia.com   E-Mail: mail@aaronia.de