url: https://phys.org/news/2018-06-drone-forensics-boost-nist-website.html





Drone forensics gets a boost with new data on NIST website





















































Topics





Week's top


Latest news


Unread news


Subscribe

























Science X Account




























Remember me




Sign In



                           Click here to sign in with
                               


                                   or
                                





Forget Password?


Not a member?
                           Sign up



Learn more

























Nanotechnology


Physics


Earth


Astronomy & Space


Technology


Chemistry


Biology


Other Sciences


























share this!






4







14







Share







Email












Home




Technology




Engineering











































                                                June 7, 2018
                                                				
                                            


Drone forensics gets a boost with new data on NIST website

                                        by                                         National Institute of Standards and Technology







                Kaitlyn Fox, a laboratory assistant at VTO labs, inspects an aerial drone while VTO chief technology officer Steve Watson reviews data from the drone. Credit: VTO labs
             

Aerial drones might someday deliver online purchases to your home. But in some prisons, drone delivery is already a thing. Drones have been spotted flying drugs, cell phones and other contraband over prison walls , and in several cases, drug traffickers have used drones to ferry narcotics across the border.
                                               




 If those drones are captured, investigators will try to extract data from them that might point to a suspect. But there are many types of drones, each with its own quirks, and that can make data extraction tricky. It would help if investigators could instantly conjure another drone of the same type to practice on first, and while that may not be possible, they can now do the next best thing: download a "forensic image" of that type of drone.
A forensic image is a complete data extraction from a digital device, and NIST maintains a repository of images made from personal computers, mobile phones, tablets, hard drives and other storage media. The images in NIST's Computer Forensic Reference Datasets, or CFReDS, contain simulated digital evidence and are available to download for free. Recently, NIST opened a new section of CFReDS dedicated to drones, where forensic experts can find images of 14 popular makes and models, a number that is expected to grow to 30 by December 2018.
"The drone images will allow investigators to do a dry run before working on high-profile cases," said Barbara Guttman, manager of digital forensic research at NIST. "You don't want to practice on evidence."
The drone images were created by VTO Labs, a Colorado-based digital forensics and cybersecurity firm. NIST added the images to CFReDS because that website is well-known within the digital forensics community. "Listing the drone images there is the fastest way to get them out to experts in the field," Guttman said.
Work on the drone images began in May of last year, when VTO Labs received a contract from the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate.





                Aerial drones at the VTO Labs field research station in Colorado. Credit: VTO labs
             


"When we proposed this project, there was little existing research in this space," said Steve Watson, chief technology officer at VTO. The drone research was needed not only to combat drug smuggling, but also to allow officials to respond more quickly should a drone ever be used as a weapon inside the United States.
                                            





For each make and model of drone he studied for this DHS-funded project, Watson purchased three and flew them until they accumulated a baseline of data. He then extracted data from one while leaving it intact. He disassembled a second and extracted data from its circuit board and onboard cameras. With the third, he removed all the chips and extracted data from them directly. He also disassembled and extracted data from the pilot controls and other remotely connected devices.
"The forensic images contain all the 1s and 0s we recovered from each model," Watson said. The images were created using industry standard data formats so that investigators can connect to them using forensic software tools and inspect their contents. The images for each model also come with step-by-step, photo-illustrated teardown instructions.
Watson was able to retrieve serial numbers, flight paths, launch and landing locations, photos and videos. On one model, he found a database that stores a user's credit card information.
Investigators can use the images to practice recovering data, including deleted files. Universities and forensic labs can use them for training, proficiency testing and research. And application developers can use the images to test their software. "If you're writing tools for drone forensics, you need a lot of drones to test them on," Guttman said.
A description of the drone images and instructions for accessing them are available on the new drones section of the CFReDS website.
                                                                                                                        





Explore further

Farming drone imagery often inaccurate



												Provided by
																									National Institute of Standards and Technology







This story is republished courtesy of NIST. Read the original story here.




Citation:
                                                 Drone forensics gets a boost with new data on NIST website (2018, June  7)
                                                 retrieved 11 June 2019
                                                 from https://phys.org/news/2018-06-drone-forensics-boost-nist-website.html
                                            

                                            This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
                                            part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
                                            





18 shares
									






Facebook







Twitter







Email







 Feedback to editors


















Featured


Last Comments


Popular





Using a selective light absorber to build a photothermal catalysis system





3 hours ago





0




Gravitational data from Dawn suggests dome on Ceres is made of volcanic mud





3 hours ago





0




Study of mesosiderite zircons suggests Vesta was struck by a very large rock





3 hours ago





0




Study shows recent plant extinctions much more extensive than thought





4 hours ago





0




Bioinspired Materials—Graphene-enabled nickel composites





5 hours ago





0

















 
'Sandwich' structure key to thin LSMO films retaining magnetic properties





23 minutes ago









 
Hawks' pursuit of prey has implications for capturing rogue drones





1 hour ago









 
Hybrid device may help doctors treat strokes more quickly





1 hour ago









 
iPhone plus nanoscale porous silicon equals cheap, simple home diagnostics





2 hours ago









 
How NASA prepares spacecraft for the harsh radiation of space





2 hours ago









 
Citizen scientists re-tune Hubble's galaxy classification





2 hours ago









 
Team puts an ancient spin on a new digital currency





2 hours ago









 
Climate change may be putting beluga whales out of their depths





3 hours ago









 
Using a selective light absorber to build a photothermal catalysis system





3 hours ago









 
Gravitational data from Dawn suggests dome on Ceres is made of volcanic mud





3 hours ago











Relevant PhysicsForums posts

Atom's mass -- does it change with energy levels?




16 hours ago



Instantaneous Clothes Dryer




16 hours ago



Discharge in a DC RC circuit and negative sign of current




20 hours ago



Types of lights




21 hours ago



Modes and Q-factor(s) of a random laser




Jun 09, 2019



Usage of absorption and magnitude mode spectra in nuclear magnetic resonance




Jun 09, 2019



							More from Other Physics Topics





























Related Stories





 
Farming drone imagery often inaccurate





Apr 16, 2018









 
New NIST forensic tests to ensure high-quality copies of digital evidence





Dec 13, 2017









 
European flight safety agency issues drone guidelines





Feb 22, 2018












FAA tells drone owners to skip registration firms





Nov 16, 2015










UK prison moves to stop drone deliveries of contraband





May 16, 2017









 
CMU-SV Professor uses The Matrix to train drones in tracking objects





Jul 10, 2017










Recommended for you





 
MIT and NASA engineers demonstrate a new kind of airplane wing





Apr 01, 2019









 
When Concorde first took to the sky 50 years ago





Mar 01, 2019









 
Paper sensors remove the sting of diabetic testing





Dec 21, 2018











 
Micropores let oxygen and nutrients inside biofabricated tissues





Dec 20, 2018









 
Understanding dynamic stall at high speeds





Dec 18, 2018









 
Pushing lithium ion batteries to the next performance level





Dec 13, 2018

























User comments





Please sign in to add a comment. Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
		   Read more












Sign in


Forgot Password
Registration




 












































What do you think about this particular story?
Your feedback will go directly to Science X editors.









Your message to the editors





Your  email  (only if you want to be contacted back)




Send Feedback




Thank you for taking your time to send in your valued opinion to Science X editors.
                            You can be assured our editors closely monitor every feedback sent and will take appropriate actions. Your opinions are important to us.
                            We do not guarantee individual replies due to extremely high volume of correspondence.
                        








E-mail the story
Drone forensics gets a boost with new data on NIST website











Your friend's email





Your email









                                            I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more







Your name



Note

                                            Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose.
											The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. 
                                        




Your message









Send






































Newsletter sign up

					Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox.
					You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties.
				






Subscribe



More information
Privacy policy













Medical Xpress
Medical Xpress covers all medical research advances and health news 









Tech Xplore
Tech Xplore covers the latest engineering, electronics and technology advances









ScienceX
 Science X Network offers the most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web










Newsletters







Subscribe






                                        Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
                                    






Follow us































Top


Home


Search


Mobile version




Help


FAQ


About


Contact




Science X Account


Sponsored Account


Archive


News wire




Android app


iOS app


RSS feeds


Push notification







© Phys.org 2003 - 2019 powered by Science X Network


Privacy policy
Terms of use





Your Privacy

			This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, and provide content from third parties.
              By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy
              and Terms of Use.
        

Ok
More Information













E-mail newsletter








Subscribe


Follow us
































                    It appears that you are currently using Ad Blocking software. What are the consequences?
                

×