




Security and surveillance - Thermal camera embedded on drone - AltiGator Drone & UAV Technologies



















































































 









Skip to content




 



Toggle mobile menu



UAVs

Drone custom made solutions
ATLAS
FOX HD
FOX XT
HYDRA
XENA
Applications
Complete solutions

OnyxScan LiDAR
XENA Geo
XENA Observer
XENA Thermo
XENA Rescue
FOX-C8 XT Observer


Features
Technologies


LiDAR
Services

Aerial services provision
Drone pilot training
Drone custom made solutions
Drones updates, maintenance and repair


Software
E-shop
References
About us
Contact
Français
 









Search for:



 
 GPS status: 






Security and surveillance – Thermal camera embedded on drone 

Thermal imaging is essential nowadays as it is being adopted in a growing number of applications of security and surveillance.
While the use of an infrared (IR) camera was once the privilege of border guards and other official security related organizations, the power of thermal imaging is now accessible and usable in numerous different situations:
 
By firefighters:Firefighters have been using thermal cameras for years as it allows them to see in absolute darkness, through smoke, and to detect hot spots in floors, walls and ceilings. The ability to see through the smoke with an infrared camera contributes to secure sites and to help saving lives.

Research for victims (SAR)
Fire detection
Light or residual fire
Hot spot after extinguishing an attic or chimney fire
When working for a traffic accident at night in the field, to detect any body ejected from the road
To locate a victim from the rubble

Firefighters are familiar with the benefits of thermal cameras; a growing number of them are relying on their powerful functions to facilitate their work, improving the efficiency and speed of interventions during emergency situations.
 
By Sea Rescue units: A person that has fallen overboard must at all costs be recovered as soon as possible to be rescued. Not only can he float away from the vessel but the time spent in water dramatically increases the risk of hypothermia, which is a mortal danger at sea. Through thermal imaging, the person in distress can be quickly located and pulled out of water.
 
By the police or customs officials for night operation:Thermal imaging is also used by police and other services for security and surveillance operations. It allows to spot, locate and track suspects in total darkness. Thanks to infrared camera, suspects can not hide in the bushes or in the shade because their heat signature is easily visible on the image. Moreover, thermal imaging helps securing places of intervention for police and security forces by increasing the knowledge of the field and by locating threats present in the operational area.
 



 
For industrial facilities:Nuclear plants, petrochemical installations, warehouses, ports … all these areas are exposed to several dangers, including theft, requiring to take security measures in order to prevent them. Surveillance is highly simplified and enhanced by using infrared cameras that reveal threats hidden in the darkness, concealed by adverse weather, and veiled by dust, fog or smoke. Thermal imaging allows to easily expose the factors that could trouble sites’ security.
 
OPTRIS PI 640The thermal imager Optris ® PI 640 together with its miniature embedded computer is the smallest measuring VGA infrared camera worldwide. With an optical resolution of 640×480 pixels, the new PI 640 provides pin-sharp radiometric pictures and videos in real-time.Its compact dimensions of only 46x56x90 mm and low weight of 320 grams (lens incl.), it is the ideal solution for aerial drones applications.
 
Aerial thermal imaging solutions with dronesWith these qualities, the Optris® IP 640 camera can be embedded on our models:

ALG1000 of AltiGator (S1, S2 and S3 certified in France): total takeoff weight <4 kg. Indicative flight time of 17 minutes.
ALG760 (variant of the ALG750). Compact and designed for rescue services at sea and in the mountains. Take-off weight of about 4 kg. Indicative flight time of 24 min (30 min with a lighter thermal camera like the Tamarisk).
OnyxStar FOX-C8 (S1 and S2 certified in France): total takeoff weight <5 kg. Indicative flight time of 24 minutes.
OnyxStar FOX-C8HD (S1 and S2 certified in France): total takeoff weight of 7.5 kg. Indicative flight time 33 minutes.

 
See also: 

Aerial surveillance with thermal infrared and HD video cameras with zoom
A drone to rescue immigrants

452
Partager :PrintLinkedInSkype 









Request a Quote
Contact us
Conditions of use
Français
 
 

Home
UAVs
UAV LiDAR
Complete solutions
Technologies
About us
 

GPS status
 






				Copyright 2019 © AltiGator 
			




























We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok