 







Drone Detection Radar | Watch our Product Presentation!






































 



 
































Homepage
About Us
Products
News
Contact Us
 
















































Drone Detection Radar





 












 








 For video press play: 












The Ultimate Innovation in Drone Detection Radar













Miltronix’s suite of state-of-the-art Air Surveillance Radar options are designed to fill critical gaps in air surveillance to protect national borders, vital infrastructure and other critical high value assets. These sophisticated solid-state Drone Detection Radar is specially designed to detect, locate, and display Drones of various sizes that might be flying within the Radar’s area of coverage.






The flexibility in design offered by these radars enables them to detect fixed and rotary wing drones of various sizes. These radars have the capability to effectively and efficiently detect all kinds of Drones including those with low RCS with validation provided by a sophisticated high resolution long range Electro / Optical sensor. The Miltronix Drone Detection Radar can be integrated with a range of Anti-Drone systems.



 






The Drone Challenges













The advent of Drones and their extensive use in recent times have created a challenge for existing radar systems, which have traditionally specialized in detecting and tracking civilian and military aircraft and helicopters. Further, Drone designs now include stealth features to further minimize detection, which is in addition to their use of composite materials. This has resulted in the fact that even large Drones now have an RCS of that of a bird, which traditional radar systems are not designed to detect. To add to the challenge of detection by traditional radar systems, a Drone moves in a more random manner than traditional aircraft, and at low to medium altitudes with varying speeds.






To detect modern Drones, a sophisticated and sensitive 3D radar is required that can detect very low RCS flying objects, including those that are low flying. It is essential that the system should also be capable of providing real-time alerts in declared threat zones, and archiving data for future analysis and reporting. Miltronix Drone Detection Radar provides all this along with a built- in high resolution, long range Electro-Optical sensor for validating the Radar detected targets.
















Drone Detection Radar – Salient Features
















Advanced Doppler Radar


Capability To Detect & Monitor Non-Conventional Air Targets Like Drones


Target Differentiation and Validation Using High Resolution Long Range E/O Device with a Range of up to 4 Kms


Fully custom designed option to Detect and Monitor Drones


Fully Solid State and Fully Coherent Radar


X Band Radar


Spread Spectrum Technology


Covers Entire Surveillance Airspace in 3D


Electronically Scanning Vertical Multi-Beam Array Antenna


Clutter Resistant Beams Effectively Detect Low Flying Targets


User Selectable Short Range Mode & Long Range Mode


Unique Continuous 3D Digital Zoom


3D Clutter Mapping Feature


In-built GPS based, Automatic GIS Mapping Engine


Radar Can Detect Targets up to 10 Km away


Frequency Agility With Multiple Center Frequencies


Mono Pulse feature for Enhanced Resolution


Scan >100 targets Simultaneously










Accurate Target Height Information


3D Display, PPI and A Scope View



Customized software capable of:

Radar Data Processing
Target Detection & Monitoring
Clutter Removal
Data Display & Integration into ATC and C4I Systems
Countermeasure Systems
Data Archiving for future analysis
Data Analytics




Live Zoom / Spotlight Feature in Display


Threat Warning via Alarm Zones


Ability to feed 3D Target Coordinates to Anti-Drone Systems


TCP/IP network integration


High MTBF


System provided with UPS and Power Supply Back Up.


Fast and Easy Deployment













Drone Detection Radar – System Specifications












Radar Frequency:
X Band


Radar Target Detection Range:
10 KM


Drone Validation Range:
4 KM


Range Resolution:
50 m


Range Accuracy:
< 50 m


Antenna Gain:
>41 dB


Elevation:
Multi Beam, Electronically Scanning


Elevation Coverage:
> 42°




















Azimuth Coverage:
360 Degree with sector Blanking Option


Revolutions Per Minute:
6 RPM


Multiple PRF:
Yes


Multiple Pulse Width:
Yes


CFAR:
Yes


Max No. of Targets Detected:
Up To a 1000


False Tracks:
PD 1E10-5





























Unit 223 Dunsfold Park Cranleigh Surrey GU6 8GA United KingdomMiltronix is the trading name for Miltronix Limited registered
in England and Wales Company No: 10495473T: +44 20 3971 8866  E: info@miltronix.co.uk  W:   www.miltronix.co.ukCOntact Us


 

















Homepage
About Us
Products
News
Contact Us
 








Start Typing 
















































 
 