url: https://counterdronesolutions.com.au/droneshield/






Droneshield - Drone Detection System - Counter Drone Solutions













































































Australia: Phone 0498 530 672|office@counterdronesolutions.com.au 












 HomeProductsOur Services1. Provider of Counter Drone Solutions2. Installation, Training, & Commissioning3. Drone Surveillance Service4. Event Security Support5. Third Party Product Assessments6. Consulting & Expert Industry Advice7. Implementing Drones To Support Your Security Plan8. Tabletop Exercises & Red Teaming9. Remote Pilot Licence Training RePL10. Our Training PortalThe RiskAirportsPrisonsEvents & VenuesInfrastructurePorts and MarineSuperyachtsMovie SetsVIPs & PrivacyTechnologyDrone DetectionCounter DroneLegal ChallengesAbout UsMedia/BlogsContact Us 















			Droneshield – Drone Detection Solutions		


wpctrdrone 


			2018-11-02T10:14:55+00:00		



Droneshield – Drone Detection Solutions



Detect, Classify, Track and Respond to Drone Threats








Droneshield Product Suite




Individual Products
Droneshield offers a number of products that provides a client with options and a scale-able solution based on risk identified and budget allocated.
Droneshield’s detection solutions include:

Primary Detection Methods

Radio Frequency Detection (RFOne)
Radar One (360deg coverage)
Radar Zero (120 deg coverage)


Secondary Detection Methods

Optics (Infrared & optical)
Acoustics Sensors



The primary detection methods can be deployed individually but a multiple product solution provides the best protection.




Integrated Solutions
This video shows examples of Droneshield’s integrates solutions; Sentry and Sentinel.








A Summary of How Droneshield Products Work








Radio Frequency (RF Detection)
Droneshield’s RF detection system uses multiple software defined radios to detect drones within its operating range of about 5km.  Where four RF sensors are installed in the same location,such as the same mast/pole/roof, the system will provide 360 RF detection coverage.  This type of configuration will provide the bearing to the detection drone with accuracy.  Where multiple systems are deployed but at different locations, RF triangulation is achieved and the result is the position of the drone on a map providing excellent situational awareness.




Radio Frequency (RF) Sensors
Droneshield’s RF detection system uses multiple software defined radios to detect drones within its operating range of about 5km.  Where four RF sensors are installed in the same location, such as the same mast/pole/roof, the system will provide 360 RF detection coverage. This type of configuration will provide the bearing to the detection drone with accuracy.
Where multiple systems are deployed but at different locations, RF triangulation is achieved and the result is the position of the drone on a map providing excellent situational awareness.




RF Triangulation with Multiple Sensors
Droneshields RFOne drone detection sensors detect drones by their radio frequency (RF) signatures and classifies them based on details recorded in the drone database which includes commercial and hobbyist drones.
For triangulation, at least two sensors are deployed around a site and where their detection areas intersect triangulation is achieved.  Triangulation is important as it provides the exact location of the drone which is then visually displayed on the software interface providing situational awareness to the response team.








Droneshield Radar Solutions
Droneshield has two radar solutions on offer.  RadarOne is best solution offering a 360 degree coverage with detection out to about 1km but you pay for the capability.  RadarZero is a starring radar solution that offers 120 degree coverage per unit and has a detection range of about 750mtrs with a reasonable price point.




RadarOne
DroneShield RadarOne provides rapid, precise tracking of airborne targets with 360 degrees of azimuth coverage at ranges of 1km or more.
It is suitable for mobile and permanent installations, and deploys in minutes. RadarOne supports automatic tracking of airborne targets and can display hundreds of track simultaneously.
It is configurable through the DroneShield User Interface.
Long Range Tracking: Accurate tracking of airborne targets at ranges up to 1.5km
Lightweight: Man-portable for mobile deployments
Self-Positioning: Built-in GPS and compass eases deployment and ensures track accuracy




RadarZero
RadarZero has been designed to be calibration-free for fast installation and integration. Precise tracking of airborne targets up to 750m with customisable field-of-view and real beam scanning ensures that your security team has an optimized early warning system for any site. RadarZero provides ultra-high confidence threat detection and tracks, even in cluttered environments. It is configurable through the DroneShield User Interface.

Early Warning: Highly functional radar designed specifically for UAS (drone) detection. Detects small drones up to 850m.
High Track Acquisition Rate: New detection threats and radar tracks can be established in less than 1 second.
Mobile: Highly compact, lightweight design, perfect for mobile and rapid deployments.
Plug & Play: Superior onboard technology allows the RadarZero to be set up and operational in minutes. No calibration required.
Team Player: Seamlessly integrates with other detection technologies within the DroneShield GUI, enabling RadarZero’s highly accurate data feed to confirm threats.









Droneshield User Interface and Drone Database




Droneshield Software Interface
Droneshields software, hosted in the cloud or on the premise, uses a drone database to identify and classify RF, WiFi, and non-WiFi drones.
Droneshield’s system can integrate with 3rd-party sensors, and triggers alerts and countermeasures.




Drone Database
Droneshield’s drone database contains details of commercial and hobbyist drones that enables it to classify a drone when it detects it. The data base includes details on the drone manufacture, the model, and the frequency it operates on.  The drone database is updated frequently to ensure the latest drones are included as well as any new identified threats.  The yearly subscription service ensures the system is always up-to-date to protect against threats.








Security Reporting and Integration




Security & Incident Reporting
Droneshield’s software interface records all detection’s and logs them in flight history logs.
The flight history logs contain details of the drones location, manufacturer, model, time and flight duration. Reports can be easily generated for analysis.




Integration
Droneshield’s system can be integrate with your existing security system.  Pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) and CCTV cameras can be automatically slewed to the detected location of the drone to aid in the timely assessment of the risk posed by the drone presence.
By using API, many external sensors and third party applications can be integrated into Droneshield’s solution.








Droneshield Solutions Are Designed For




Droneshield’s solutions are designed to mitigate the risks posed by drones by providing entities with the ability to detect, classify, and track drones.
Droneshield’s system are suitable for:

Prisons
Critical infrastructure
Ports and Marinas
Sport Stadiums
Airports
Special Events













Benefits & Limitations
Every counter drone system has benefits and limitations and its important that an end user understands them.  The more systems you deploy, the better the protection provided.
The below points are not specific to Droneshield products and apply to all of these types of systems.




Benefits
For the RF detection some of the benefits include:

Detects drones made by multiple manufacturers by accessing a drone database
The drone database contains an extensive list of drones
When multiple RF sensor are positioned together:

Provides 360 degree coverage
When a drone is detected it will provide accurate bearing information


When multiple RF sensors are deployed away from each other:

Provides 360 degree coverage
Enables Triangulation which provides:

Pinpoint accuracy
Tracking capability





For Radar, the benefits of adding a  radar solution to a RF Solution includes obtaining additional information to aid the risk assessment including:

Purpose built drone detection radars
Tracks multiple targets
Provides quick scanning of large areas
Has high tracking accuracy
Provides crucial information:

Drone Distance
Drone Height
Advanced tracking capability







Limitations
For the RF detection some of the limitations are:

Range: Signal drops over distance
Noise:  Surrounding RF noise
Speed/Time:  High speed of drones mean the RF system must scan and capture the RF signal quickly to be effective
Urban Environments:  RF interference is likely in these built up urban environment
Detection and classification:  This relies on the data in the drone database. Drones not listed in the database may not be detected.

For Radar, some of the limitations include:

The small profile of drones can be difficult to detect
Eliminating false alarms such as birds
Cost compared to RF solution









Contact Us
Counter Drone Solutions can supply these products in Australasia due to its relationship with Droneshield and its Australian distributor. We can provide  system presentations, case studies, can supply and install, and provide training for operators and personnel.  Contact us today to find out how Droneshield’s products can help mitigate the risk posed by drones to your facility.










 
 






		Copyright 2017 | Counter Drone Solutions | All Rights Reserved | 	



 
 
 
 
 

error: Content is protected !!