url: http://www.neptectechnologies.com/security-lidar/















Security LiDAR - Neptec Technologies Corp.





































































+1(613) 599 7602
Ottawa, Ontario












































Home
About Us

About Us
History
Management
Careers


Industries

Industries
Marine
Port Automation
Aerospace
Security
Land Systems


Products

Products
OPAL LiDAR
3DRi Software
Legacy Products


Downloads
News

News
Upcoming Events


Contact us

Contact us
Distributors


 











Security LiDAR












OPAL™ 3D LiDAR scanners and 3DRi™ software are uniquely suited for automatic intrusion detection and identification at facilities such as airports, nuclear power plants, and other high-value locations for safety and security. The detection system operates 24X7 day or night in all types of inclement weather and requires little to no maintenance. Types of intrusion include persons, ground vehicles, or aerial conveyance such as drones or UAVs.
As the OPAL™ and 3DRi™ architecture is very flexible, Neptec Technologies offers customized scanner performance and packaging to meet your specific application requirements.


APPLICATIONS 




Change Detection
OPAL™ LiDAR is capable of creating very detailed scans of its environment. When new objects, such as a person or a vehicle enter the LiDAR FOV, the 3DRi™ Software can track and alert the target’s position and heading. The OPAL™ LiDAR can detect objects as small as a plastic drone, or as large as imaginable. The material of the object or whether its night or day plays no part in the OPAL’s capabilities as it is an active scanner that isn’t affected by lighting conditions. OPAL™ LiDAR can be the perfect complement to your perimeter security system.



Drone Detection
OPAL™ LiDAR is capable of detecting small drones out to a range of several hundred meters. As the OPAL™ LiDAR is very capable of removing a background scene as part of its change detection capabilities, it is the perfect solution for detecting drones in urban or cluttered environments. The 3DRi software can detect and track countless threats with unique identifiers. This helps manage the threat of swarms of drones by being able to know the movement of each drone individually.


Features 





Excellent accuracy- Distinguish individual targets- Discern threat size and heading- Detect very small changes in the environment
3D and intensity point returns
Minimal returns off water - clutter elimination with filtering
Ability to scan non-metallic objects
Rugged all weather operations; operates in: rain, snow, hail, smoke, dust, fog
Active sensing – Not affected by lighting conditions
Customizable FOV options
Easily geo-register points in real-time
High resilience to spoofing, jamming, or any other interference
Low power
Low bandwidth
Small form factor
Quiet operation
Long life
Low servicing requirements



SECURITY LIDAR IN REAL-TIME 



https://youtu.be/S0MJTFWdawMhttps://youtu.be/p56GJlI48kE


			
			DOWNLOAD THE OPAL™ DATA SHEET		


 




Scroll to Top 





Neptec Technologies Corp.
302 Legget Drive, Suite 202  Ottawa, ON K2K 1Y5 Canada


Contact Us


+1(613) 599 7602
ntcsales@neptec.com
ntcsupport@neptec.com




Useful Links

Products
Industries
Upcoming Events
 


























Copyright © 2019 by Neptec Technologies
                        Corp. All rights reserved.
                    






DOWNLOAD A DATA SHEET