url: https://roshel.ca/electronic-warfare/anti-drone-counter-uav-systems/







Anti-Drone & Counter-UAV Systems – Roshel Defence Solutions






































































Careers
Register as a Supplier
Become a Reseller











Home
About us
Products & Solutions

Armoured Vehicles

Special Purpose Vehicles

Roshel Partisan APC
Roshel Senator APC
Roshel Admiral APC
Armoured SWAT Van


Armoured Sedans
Armoured SUVs

Armoured Lincoln Navigator


Cash in Transit Vehicles


Electronic Warfare

Convoy Jammers

S-Series Jammers
M-Series Jammers
L-Series Jammers


Portable Jammers

Backpack Jammers
Trolley-based Jammers
Suitcase-based Jammers


Stationary Jammers
Anti-Drone & Counter-UAV Systems


Land Systems

Surveillance & Reconnaissance Systems
Mobile Observation & Reconnaissance Vehicle


Cyber Solutions


Services
Applications
Media Center
 


Contact Us







Search

 













 










Search

 














Home
Products & Solutions
Armoured Vehicles
Electronic Warfare
About us
Services
Applications
Media Center
Careers
Register as a Supplier
Become a Reseller
Contact
 






 





 

Anti-Drone & Counter-UAV Systems 

As a manufacturer and supplier of electronic countermeasures (ECM), Roshel offers a wide range of counter-UAV solutions  to provide the maximum protection of areas and facilities of various sizes and functions. 


 





Anti-Drone & Counter-UAV Systems
Professional UAV Detection and Neutralization
As a manufacturer and supplier of electronic countermeasures (ECM), Roshel offers a wide range of counter-UAV solutions to provide the maximum protection of areas and facilities of various sizes and functions. It might include different sets of equipment depending on the application (residential zones, correctional facilities, commercial venues, government buildings, industrial installations, airports, border security, critical infrastructure, military facilities).
Our advanced and innovative anti-UAV solutions consist of different combinations of UAV detection techniques such as radars, RF spectrum analyzers, electro-optic surveillance, etc), drone neutralization methods based on RF interference and laser technology. Our modular systems allow simultaneous use and smooth operation of different counter-UAV solutions providing an operator with an ability to access the level of threat and take adequate response actions.
Roshel Anti-Drone systems ensure a robust and effective no-fly zone that can be applied to convoy protection, operation bases and facilities. Our systems are easy to operate and able to address multiple, simultaneous platforms. The RF based systems are equipped with advanced SDR signal processing that maximize the efficiency of the operation. The system covers various bands from 20 to 6000 MHz within up to 20 km range. When the treat is detected jamming is immediate with two main options: cushion landing or drift away and land. The system is highly customizable to meet the exact requirements of each customer.
The counter-drone system can be operated from a portable device (including tablet) that displays general azimuth detection, detection status, possible identification as well as jamming status. Three modes of operation are available to the operator, including manual (time is set by the operator), automatic (automatically detects and jams), detection (detection only).
Roshel counter-UAV systems are widely deployed to provide efficient protection for the military basis, critical infrastructure, sensitive buildings, correctional facilities and others. Both commercial and tactical applications have proved themselves to be an efficient tool for governmental and law enforcement clients on a global scale.
Our experienced team of military veterans and industry professionals will be glad to collaborate with you in order to learn more about your operational requirements, identify the unique requirements of your region and offer the most efficient solution to ensure an effective no-fly zone.


 


 



 



 




REQUEST SPECS & QUOTE





Technical Specifications


Applications:
Mobile
Stationary



Utilization:
 Airports
Ports
Correctional facilities
Strategic installations
Critical infrastructure
Mass events
Military facilties



Frequency coverage:
20-520 MHz VHF/UHF
429-448 MHz DATALINK
903-927 MHz DATALINK
1,240-1,294 MHz VIDEO
2,400-2,483 MHz WI-FI
5,100-5,900 MHz WI-FI
1,227 MHz GPS
1,575 MHz GPS
1,243-1,251 MHz GLONASS
1,598-1,609 MHz GLONASS


Antennas type:
Omni-directional antennas for optimal 360º cover


 Radar detection range:
Up to 25 km


 System components:
Comm. Box
Receiver
Jamming unit
Detection/jamming antennas
Radar
C&C PC


 Operating Temperature:
-30 °C +50 °C


 Storage Temperature:
-40 °C +60 °C


Get a Quote







 





B6 Cadillac Escalade 

A reliable armoured SUV delivered with proven quality for additional performance and top-to-bottom security.  

Read more 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 







 

 

Convoy Jammer 

A custom-tailored vehicular-based modular system for reliable protection in various environmental conditions and terrains. 

Read more 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 







 

 

Portable Jammer 

Covers a full frequency spectrum and offers an unparalleled level of protection while providing supreme  durability. 

Read more 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 







 

 

Anti-drone System 

An effective counter UAV system ensuring a robust and effective no-fly zone to address a wide range of scenarios. 

Read more 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Featured Products 

 






Key Advantages








Advanced Capabilities
Provides advanced observation, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities to facilitate Law Enforcement and Border Patrol missions in various terrains and weather conditions.








Innovative Equipment
Equipped with radar and Electro-Optical System (EOS), thermal vision camera, stabilization and remote weapon system (RWS).








Reliable Protection
Armoured in accordance with B6 protection level based on the European CEN standards providing protection from high powered rifles.










































Your Global Defence Partner





About us
Corporate Profile
Our Values
Global Footprint
Affiliations
Media Center
Contact Us





Armoured Vehicles
Electronic Warfare
Land Systems
Cyber Solutions
Procurement
Sourcing
Consulting





Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Become a Reseller
Become a Supplier
Careers





Contact





7381 Pacific Cir., Mississauga,
Ontario L5T 2A4, Canada





Phone: +1 (905) 565-0355
Fax: +1 (905) 565-0356
Email: info@roshel.ca





Newsletter





Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the new products and latest news.





































2019 © Copyright Roshel Inc. All rights reserved








				Request a quote			



Name*


First



Last

Email*

PhonePhoneThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

  










This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.



			×            