url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304365987_USE_OF_A_MULTISPECTRAL_UAV_PHOTOGRAMMETRY_FOR_DETECTION_AND_TRACKING_OF_FOREST_DISTURBANCE_DYNAMICS








    






 











































(PDF) USE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICS


We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got itWe value your privacyWe use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.Accept CookiestopSee all ›4 CitationsSee all ›37 ReferencesSee all ›2 FiguresDownload citationShare  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn RedditDownload full-text PDFUSE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICSArticle (PDF Available) · June 2016 with 403 ReadsDOI: 10.5194/isprs-archives-XLI-B8-711-2016  Cite this publication Robert Minařík5.88Charles University in Prague Jakub Langhammer26.7Charles University in PragueAbstractThis study presents a new methodological approach for assessment of spatial and qualitative aspects of forest disturbance based on the use of multispectral imaging camera with the UAV photogrammetry. We have used the miniaturized multispectral sensor Tetracam Micro Multiple Camera Array (μ-MCA) Snap 6 with the multirotor imaging platform to get multispectral imagery with high spatial resolution. The study area is located in the Sumava Mountains, Central Europe, heavily affected by windstorms, followed by extensive and repeated bark beetle (Ips typographus [L.]) outbreaks in the past 20 years. After two decades, there is apparent continuous spread of forest disturbance as well as rapid regeneration of forest vegetation, related with changes in species and their diversity. For testing of suggested methodology, we have launched imaging campaign in experimental site under various stages of forest disturbance and regeneration. The imagery of high spatial and spectral resolution enabled to analyse the inner structure and dynamics of the processes. The most informative bands for tree stress detection caused by bark beetle infestation are band 2 (650nm) and band 3 (700nm), followed by band 4 (800 nm) from the, red-edge and NIR part of the spectrum. We have identified only three indices, which seems to be able to correctly detect different forest disturbance categories in the complex conditions of mixture of categories. These are Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Simple 800/650 Ratio Pigment specific simple ratio B1 and Red-edge Index.Discover the world's research15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for free Figures - uploaded by Robert MinaříkAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Robert MinaříkContent may be subject to copyright. Study area. a) Study region with marked Forest Infrared Index, b) Study site, where UAV imaging was performed, c) Research plot, analysed in this study.…  ARF MicroKopter Okto XL equipped with multispectral camera µ-MCA Snap 6.… Content uploaded by Robert MinaříkAuthor contentAll content in this area was uploaded by Robert Minařík on Oct 05, 2016 Content may be subject to copyright.Download full-text PDFOther full-text sourcesContent available from Robert Minařík:minarik_langhammer_final_paper21.pdfContent available from CC BY 4.0:USE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICS.pdfAvailable via license: CC BY 4.0Content may be subject to copyright.Other full-text sourcesContent available from Robert Minařík:minarik_langhammer_final_paper21.pdfContent available from CC BY 4.0:USE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICS.pdf 





USE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICS    R. Minařík a, J. Langhammer a, *  a Dept. of Physical Geography and Geoecology, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, Albertov 6, Prague 2, 128 43, Czech Republic - (robert.minarik, jakub.langhammer)@natur.cuni.cz  Commission VIII, WG VIII/7   KEY WORDS: UAV, Photogrammetry, Multispectral Sensor, Forest Disturbance, Vegetation Indices, Change Detection   ABSTRACT:  This study presents a new methodological approach for assessment of spatial and qualitative aspects of forest disturbance based on the  use  of  multispectral imaging  camera  with  the UAV  photogrammetry. We  have  used  the miniaturized  multispectral  sensor Tetracam Micro  Multiple Camera Array (µ-MCA) Snap 6 with the multirotor imaging platform to get multispectral imagery with high  spatial  resolution.  The  study area  is  located  in the  Sumava  Mountains,  Central Europe,  heavily  affected by  windstorms, followed by extensive and repeated bark beetle (Ips typographus [L.]) outbreaks in the past 20 years. After two decades, there is apparent continuous spread of forest disturbance as well as rapid regeneration of forest vegetation, related with changes in species and their diversity. For testing of suggested methodology, we have launched imaging campaign in experimental site under various stages  of  forest disturbance  and regeneration.  The  imagery  of  high spatial  and spectral  resolution enabled to  analyse the  inner structure and dynamics of the processes. The most informative bands for tree stress detection caused by bark beetle infestation are band 2  (650nm) and  band 3  (700nm), followed  by band  4 (800 nm) from the, red-edge and NIR part of the  spectrum. We have identified  only three  indices,  which seems  to be  able  to correctly  detect  different forest  disturbance categories  in the  complex conditions  of mixture  of categories. These are  Normalized Difference Vegetation  Index (NDVI),  Simple 800/650  Ratio Pigment specific simple ratio B1 and Red-edge Index.     *   Corresponding author  1. INTRODUCTION Disturbance  is  the  key  control  of  the  dynamics  of  forest ecosystems across various environments (Frelich, 2002). It has enormous effects on  related landscape processes ranging from the changes in microclimate and runoff dynamics (Langhammer et al., 2015) to land cover changes and soil erosion (Borrelli et al.,  2016).  Various  factors  cause  the disturbance  such  as  air pollution,  storms,  unregulated  harvesting  and  pest  insect outbreak), but the  most significant impacts that may affect the dynamics of  mountain forests  in Central and  Western Europe are  considered  by  windstorms  and  bark  beetle  outbreaks (Kulakowski and Bebi, 2004). In Central Europe, especially the Sumava  Mountains  has  undergone  a  significant  forest disturbance  in  the  past  two  decades  as  a  result  of  repeated windstorms and  bark beetle  infestation (Ips  typographus [L.]) (Hais et al.,  2009).  Simultaneously,  this  area  is  experiencing significant  increases  in  observed  air  temperatures (Langhammer et.  al,  2015),  which might  cause a  raise  in the frequency  of  extreme  weather  events  and  promote  forest diseases (Lindner et al., 2010).  Damage monitoring  and  risk assessment of  bark beetles  have traditionally been based on laborious and time-consuming field sampling  methods,  focusing  on  symptoms  on  the  trunk  and foliage (Göthlin et al., 2000; Lausch et al. 2013). In general, an invasion  by  bark beetle  causes  visible crown  symptoms, i.e., discoloration  and  defoliation,  before  succumbing  from  the infestation  (Näsi  et  al., 2015).  The  needles of Norway spruce first  turn  yellow (yellow  attack),  then  to  reddish  brown  (red attack),  and  finally  grey  (tree  mortality)  (Ortiz  et  al.,  2013). Consequently, remote  sensing technologies are widely applied for non-invasive mapping of forest disturbance by pest insects. Multi-temporal medium or low resolution satellite datasets like Landsat (TM/ETM+) and SPOT (Hais et al., 2009; Latifi et al., 2014),  Colour-Infrared  (CIR)  images  captured  by  manned aircraft (Heurich et al., 2010), TerraSAR-X and RapidEye data (Ortiz et al., 2013; Adamczyk and Osberger, 2015), or airborne pushbroom imagining radiometer (Campbell et al., 2004) have been  used  for  monitoring  of  disturbances  by  bark  beetle infestation.  However,  conventional  remote  sensing  (RS) methods  are  not  always  appropriate  for  monitoring  forest disturbance dynamics particularly in the case of rapid calamity mapping of  small privately owned  forest stands  due to a high operating  cost  or  limited  spatial  and  temporal  image  data (Chambers et. al, 2007). These applications require low-cost but high-resolution  RS  data  and  acquisition  on  demand.  By addressing  the  limitations  of  conventional  remote  sensing approaches  in  forestry,  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicle  (UAV) equipped  with  a  multi  or  hyperspectral  camera  may  provide accurate means of monitoring pest infestation at the stand and even species level (Lehmann et al., 2015).   UAV has been  widely applied for  RS of  the environment and vegetation areas. Compared  to satellite-based RS applications, UAV-based  applications  have  a  much  better  resolution  and greater flexibility in selecting suitable payloads and appropriate spatiotemporal  resolution  (Zhang  and  Kovacs,  2012).  When comparing  UAV-based  applications  with  full-scale  manned aircraft RS, UAV has lower operating costs and flight altitude 




 closer  to  treetops  providing  very  detailed  insight  into  forest dynamics (Näsi et al., 2015). The current review of UAV flight experiments  applied  to  the  RS  of  vegetated  areas  including taxonomy is presented  in Salamí et al. (2014).  Approximately 40 UAV experiments are introduced in the review, but only six studies  are  centred  on  forest  mapping.  In  environment monitoring,  Laliberte  et  al.  (2011)  employed  multispectral sensor carried by UAV for rangeland vegetation classification. Turner  et  al.  (2014)  investigated  the  physiological  state  of Antarctic  Moss  ecosystems  using  UAV  equipped  with  tree different (visible, multispectral and thermal) sensors.   Rapidly increasing pest-induced forest disturbances are a threat to forest health, therefore, accurate and cost-efficient detection of stand  and tree  conditions for timely forest management are needed, but studies employing UAV in forest health monitoring are  rare  and  there  is  an  open  space  for  new  projects (Näsi et. al., 2015).   Lehmann et al. (2015) were one of the first researches that used UAV for detection  of pest infestation level in forest ecosystem Authors  used  multispectral  imagery  and  object-based  image analysis to  detect an infestation  in oak stands.  The UAV  was equipped with a calibrated consumer-grade digital camera with removed  hot  mirror  filter  to  obtain  modified  colour  infrared (CIR)  images.  Näsi  et  al.  (2015)  introduced  the  first  study which investigated bark beetle damage at tree-level by means of UAV  photogrammetry  and  hyperspectral  imaging.  In agriculture,  tree  health  monitoring  with  multispectral, hyperspectral or  thermal UAV-  based data have been  studied, e.g. vineyard (Turner et al., 2011) and peach orchard (Berni et al., 2009).   The  aim  of  the  study  is  to  introduce  a  new  methodological approach  for  assessment  of  spatial and  qualitative  aspects  of forest disturbance  at high spatial  and  spectral resolution.  This study  combines  the  use  of  multispectral  imaging  sensor Tetracam μ-MCA  Snap 6  with the UAV Mikrokopter OctoXL platform.  Using the  photogrammetric tools  there  was derived seamless  high-resolution  multispectral  imagery  covering  the study  area. Based  on  the  acquired  seamless  dataset  there we have performed a qualitative analysis of the different categories of the disturbance and regeneration of Norway spruce forest.  2. MATERIAL AND METHODS 2.1 Study Site The study site is situated in the Sumava mountains at the border between the Czech Republic and Germany (Figure 1a), formed by  an  elevated  montane  plain  with  moderate  hillslopes.  The Norway spruce (Picea abies) monoculture is  the dominant tree species in the regions. After the windstorms in the Bavarian side of mountains  in mid of 1980´s  there occurred a  massive bark beetle  (Ips  typographus  [L.])  infestation,  which  resulted  in extensive  forest  disturbance  and  decay.  The  infestation  was accelerated after the windstorms in 2007 and 2008 and in terms of  its  extent  and  intensity  is  significant  at  European  scale (Borrelli et al., 2016). While the area is protected as a National Park,  the  forest  was  left  to  the  natural  processes  of  forest disturbance,  decay,  and  regeneration  without  human intervention. In result, the former forest monoculture is recently featuring mixed  structure of the old  forest, disturbed standing trees, decayed tree trunks  and spots  of the newly regenerating young forest.  We  have  selected  the  study  site  at  headwaters  of  Hamerský brook near Kvilda village, with  high recent dynamics of forest cover  changes.  In  the  study  site,  sized  150 x  100  meters (Figure 1b), where we have identified the research plot with an appropriate mosaic of forest disturbance categories (Figure 1c). Based on the field observation, there were chosen representative samples of  the five classes (infested  trees, healthy trees, dead trees,  forest  restoration,  grass)  to  investigate  their  spectral response.  For a  selection  of  the test  plot, we  have aimed  for particular  samples, featuring  (i) high level of  heterogeneity in terms  of  forest  disturbance  categories  and  (ii)  high  level  of homogeneity inside the selected category.    a)  b)  c)  Figure 1. Study area. a) Study region with marked Forest Infrared Index, b) Study site, where UAV imaging was performed, c) Research plot, analysed in this study. 



 2.2 UAV and Sensor In  this  study,  we  used  a  multi-rotor  UAV,  namely  ARF MicroKopter  OktoXL  (Figure 2),  developed  by  HiSystems GmbH, Moormerland, Germany. The OktoXL was equipped by active gimbal with stabilised camera mount to balance the pitch and roll of the  helicopter during the survey. The typical flight duration  was  around  15  minutes  having  the  multispectral camera and two batteries on board.   To collect multispectral images we used Tetracam μ-MCA Snap 6, capturing imagery in six independent channels. Each channel is acquired by an independent camera with fixed lens, 1.3 mega-pixels  (1280 x 1024  pixels)  Complementary  Metal  Oxide Semiconductor  (CMOS) global  shutter sensor and  changeable band  pass filter.  Global shutter  sensor  µ-MCA Snap  cameras was selected as  preferred solution over the rolling shutter as it allows capturing imagery in conditions of faster and less stable UAV  platforms  (Tetracam,  2015).  The  key  feature  of the  μ-MCA  array  is  a  possibility  to  customize  the  composition  of wavelength pass filters  at each  lens according to  the needs of the research task.  The applied µ-MCA  Snap 6  array was  equipped with a set of filters fitted  to detection of vegetation stress resulting from the bark beetle  infestation, covering  also the red  edge part  of the spectrum. According to experimental laboratory study Masaitis et al. (2013), the red edge (701.0 – 715.7) is the most sensitive spectral  zone  for  stress  detection  and  for  spectral separation between  the needles  taken  from  healthy Norway  spruces and trees under stress. The data sets collected for this study had 550, 650, 700, 800, 850 and 900 nm optical filters fitted, with a Full-Width at Half Maximum (FWHM) of 20 nm.     Figure 2. ARF MicroKopter Okto XL equipped with multispectral camera µ-MCA  Snap 6.   2.3 Data Acquisition  Multispectral image acquisition was carried out on 4 April 2016 around 1 p.m. Weather condition were the windless and almost clear sky. The flight was proceded  at an altitude of 50 meters covering  a  regular grid of  150 x  100 meters  resulting  in 200 multispectral images with the spatial resolution 2.5 cm. Images were captured every second in continuous mode to keep at least 80%  frontal  and  60  %  side  overlap.  A  reference  calibration image of Teflon tag was captured directly before the flight. The main purpose was to compensate for ambient atmospheric  and sun  angle  influences  vs. reference  standard  conditions  at the time of factory calibration (Tetracam, 2015).  Prior  to  survey  flight,  there  were  equally  distributed  white papers  in  A4  format,  which  acted  as Ground  Control  Points (GCPs).  The  coordinates  of  21  GCPs  were  measured  by geodetic  Global Navigation  Satellite System  (GNSS) receiver Topcon Hiper SR with achieved horizontal accuracy of 1.8 cm and vertical accuracy of 2.5 cm.   2.4 Photogrammetric Processing The  Tetracam  PixelWrench2  (PW2)  was  used  for  the  raw images download via USB and data conversion to  single page TIF  file  format  which  is  readable  for  commonly  used multispectral  image  analysis  programs.  The  band-to-band registration step is automatically included in PW2 as part of the raw  to  multipage  TIF  format  conversion  based  on  camera´s alignment file.    The photogrammetric processing was performed using Agisoft Photoscan  Professional  1.2.4  developed  by AgiSoft  LLC, St. Petersburg,  Russia.  PhotoScan  allows  to  perform  the  3D reconstruction  of  the  scene  from the  imagery,  employing  the Structure from  Motion and Semi-Global Matching algorithms. The  reliable  performance  of  the  software  in  the  feature detection,  image  matching,  and in  consequent deriving  of  the dense  point  cloud,  3D  model  and  ortho  imagery  has  been proven in previous studies, e.g. Verhoeven (2011).  All  of the  200  multispectral  images, acquired  in the  imaging campaign  over  the  study  area  were included  into  orientation processing. The band  4 (800 nm) was set as a master channel for estimating image orientations. After initial photo alignment, GCPs were used as markers to optimize the sparse cloud and to transform image orientation into geodetic coordinate system S-JTSK Krovak East North (EPSG 5514). Seven GCPs served as checkpoints  to  evaluate  the  accuracy  of  alignment.  The following steps  in the  workflow consisted  in the  dense cloud generation,  automatic  ground  point  classification.  Based  on these  datasets,  the  Digital  Terrain  Model  (DTM)  and orthoimages were generated.   However, there is a limiting factor affecting the reliability of the data products, resulting from the photogrammetric workflow. In the  Agisoft  Photoscan,  the  orthoimage  or  even  the  single orthorectified  images  are  resampled  by  the  Bilinear Interpolation, which modifies the source Digital Number (DN) values of imagery. To avoid such modification and to retain the maximum  possible  reliability  of  the  original  DN  values,  the original  images  were  used  for  qualitative  analysis  of  the different categories of the forest  disturbance and  regeneration. The four selected original images were georeferenced in ArcGIS 10.3.1 using GCPs and distinctive terrain objects with Nearest Neighbourhood  resampling  method. Finally,  the  images were stitched ERDAS IMAGINE 2013.  



 2.5 Detection of forest disturbance The  spectral  response  for  given  categories  of  forest  damage status  was analyzed across  the  multispectral  bands. Based  on the set of selected samples for each category, we have identified the typical DN values and their variation for each spectral band (Figure 3). One sample of a dead tree with a complete loss of canopy  was added  as  an  extra category  into  the  analysis for better comparison of different disturbance phases. The analysis was  performed within  one  image  only to  inhibit  even  subtle changes  of  DN  caused  by  slightly  different  light  conditions between images capturing.  Each sample  was represented  by a circle containing approximately 525 pixels.  Figure 3. Selected appropriate samples for the spectral response analysis of different disturbance categories.  Index Formula Reference Greenness Index  redgreen Le Maire et al. (2004) Simple ratio (SR) 800/550 greenNIR Le Maire et al. (2004) Simple ratio 800/650 Pigment specific SR B1 redNIR Blackburn (1998)  Datt 2 edgeredNIR_  Datt (1999) NDVI redNIR redNIR  Tucker (1979) Green NDVI greenNIR greenNIR  Gitelson and Merzlyak (1997) Red-edge index (NDRE)  )_( )_( edgeredNIR edgeredNIR  Barnes et al. (2000) Red-edge Green NDVI  greenedgered greenedgered)_( )_(  Buschmann and Nagel (1993)  Red-edge NDVI   rededgered rededgered)_( )_(  Ortiz et al. (2013) Anthocyanin reflectance index 2 (ARI2) edgeredgreenNIR _11 Gitelson et al. (2002)  Table 1. Summary of selected vegetation indices used for tree stress detection caused by bark beetle infestation, where green is band 1 (550 nm), red is band 2 (650 nm), red_edge is band 3 (700nm) and NIR is band 4 (800 nm).   The signal of the stress or vitality of vegetation in the context of remote  sensing  techniques  is  reflected  by  the  changes  in biochemical  and  biophysical  characteristics  of  the  trees. The bark  beetle  infestation  correlates,  among  others,  with  the changes  in  the  greenness  and  leaf  pigments  concentration (Lausch et al., 2013).  Based on the previous works (Tuominen et al., 2009; Ortiz et al., 2013; Adamczyk and Osberger, 2015), suitable  vegetation  indices  have  been  selected  to  detect  tree stress  with  respect  to  the  spectral  sensibility  of  the  camera (Table 1).  Based on the set of selected spectral indices (Table 1), there was performed analysis of their values at given categories of forest disturbance.  The aim was  to analyse the  informative value  of different  spectral  indices  to  detect  the  different  qualitative stages  of  vegetation based  on μ-MCA  Snap 6  sensor spectral bands. The assessed indicators are of three categories according to the principle of calculation – the simple ratio-like indices, the Normalized Difference Vegetation Indices (NDVI)-like indices and the Anthocyanin reflectance index 2 (ARI2).  Vegetation indices were extracted for all samples in every class within a  buffer 25 cm around  points. The  number of samples was 5 for each class except dead trees category, in which was the  only  one  (see  Figure  1c). In  the  calculation  process,  the calibration values computed in PW2 were applied.   3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 3.1 Photogrammetric processing The photogrammetric processing of multispectral images using Agisoft  Photoscan  resulted  in  a  dataset  with  a  re-projection error of 0.2 pixels. The root mean square error (RMSE) values of  the seven checkpoints  residuals were  0.07 m  in horizontal (XY)  plane and 0.14  in the Z  direction. The resulting dataset represents the six-channel orthophoto with spatial resolution 2.5 cm (see Figure 1b). The photogrammetric processing accuracy is consistent with Turner et al. (2014) who state the accuracy of processing  from  5.61 to  7.29 cm  using former  version (mini-MCA) of the camera.   The  only  but  great  disadvantage  is  that  Agisoft  Photoscan supplies  only Bilinear  interpolation resampling method  which modifies  original  DN  values.  This  is  not  acceptable  for  the analysis  of  forest  damage  status  and  in  general  for  every vegetation health analysis by means of remote sensing. For this reason, the alternative workflow similar to Lehman et al. (2015) using georeferenced images stitched in ERDAS IMAGINE was used  (see  Figure  1c).  The  selected  original  images  were georeferenced  according  to  orthophoto  with  an  accuracy  of approximately 20 cm.    3.2 Spectral response of different disturbance categories The  spectral  response  analysis  of  different  disturbance categories  was  performed  (Figure  4).  In  comparison  to  the healthy trees, DN values of the infested trees are much higher in visible  wavelengths  and  significantly  lower  in  NIR wavelengths.  Higher  (radiance)  DN  values  in  the  visible spectrum are an indicator of vegetation stress. The DN values of dead tree are separable only in the red and red-edge portion of the spectrum from infested trees. In the NIR wavelengths, there are no differences between DN values of dead and infested trees and  also  between  categories  forest  restoration  and  grass.  Results point to a greater sensitivity to variations of chlorophyll 



 in the red and red-edge than in NIR part of the spectrum.  The most informative bands for tree stress detection caused by bark beetle  infestation  are  band  2  (650nm)  and  band 3  (700nm), followed by band 4 (800 nm) from the red-edge and NIR part of the spectrum. The spectral response analysis is consistent with previous  works.  The  greater sensitivity  of  red-edge  band  for assessing vegetation stress has been confirmed in experimental studies of Datt (1998) and Le Maire et al. (2004).     Figure 4. Average DN values of the established categories: infested trees, healthy trees, forest restoration, dead trees, and grass in the 550-900 nm spectral region.  3.3 Vegetation indices The  analysis  of  the  variability  of  the  values  indicated  the significant differences in  sensitivity of  the analysed  indices to detect  forest  disturbance  (Figure  5).  Most  of  the  assessed indicators  are  performing  well  in  the  detection  of  basic categories of a healthy forest, dead trees and the infested forest. These three categories are  clearly separated while in particular the  healthy  forest  and  dead  trees  represent  significantly unequivocal categories.   Most  distinct  separation  of  the  basic  categories  with  only marginal  overlaps  of  values  is  apparent  for  Simple  ratio 800/650  Pigment specific  simple ratio  B1 (Figure  5c), NDVI (Figure  5e)  and  the  Red-edge  index  (Figure  5g).  To  the contrary, the fuzzy values even in these boundary categories are apparent in the Red-edge Green NDVI (Figure 5h) index and in the  Anthocyanin  reflectance  index  (Figure  5j),  where  the distinction of categories is almost impossible.   The  key  differences  among  the  indices  performance  are apparent in their ability to distinguish the transition categories. In  particular,  it  applies  to  the  categories  of  the regenerating vegetation from the grass and infested trees.  The distinction of the  heterogeneous  categories  appeared  to  be complicated  for most  of  the  indicators.  Despite  the  correct distinction  at  the level  of  mean  values,  the  most  common  problem  is  the variability of values, resulting in significant overlaps.   We have identified only three indices, which seems to be able to correctly  detect  different  forest  disturbance  categories  in  the complex conditions of a mixture of categories. From the tested indices, the best ability to separate the different categories was apparent  in  the  classic  NDVI index  (Figure  5e).  Among  the analysed indices this was the only index where the interquartile range of  values (IRQ) was  without  overlaps among the  given categories. The Simple ratio 800/650  index (Figure 5c) is then able to  distinctly separate the  high forest from the  understory vegetation  and  fair  distinction  between  the  infested  and  the regenerating  forest  categories.  As  the  third  well  performing index, we can identify the  Red-edge index (Figure 5g), which offers  very  narrow  bands of  IRQ  variability  suggesting good separability with only marginal overlaps among the categories. This confirms the  statements by  Datt (1999) and  observations by  Gitelson  et al.  (2006) concerning  the use  of red-edge  and NIR reflectance as an indicator of forest health.     a) b)   c) d)     e) f)   g) h)   i) j)  Figure 5. Distribution of values of the selected vegetation indices in tested categories of forest disturbance.  The  differences  in  calculation  among  the  three  indices  are apparent  after  their  application  to  the  study  area (Figure  6). Every  index has  differently  shaped histogram,  tending  in the case of  NDVI to higher  values (Figure 6a),  for the  NDRE to 



 mid-values (Figure 6b) and in the case of SR 800/650 index to the low values (Figure 6c). The diverging  shape of histograms implies the different sensitivity of the three indices, calculated based  on  the  μ-MCA  Snap  6  data to  the  different  stages  of forest disturbance.   Histogram of the NDVI index is left-skewed towards the higher NDVI values. Such distribution suggests a better sensitivity of the index to healthy, regenerating and slightly disturbed forest cover. The distribution of NDRE index is most symmetric from the  three  indices  with  the  slight  left-skewed  shape  of  the histogram, similar  to the NDVI  index. The NDRE index  thus appears as most balanced,  however, with potential  overlaps in the  zone  of  low  values,  i.e.  the  areas  of  damaged  or  low vegetation. To the contrary, the Simple ration 800/650 features a  right-skewed  distribution  where  the  substantial  part  of  the index values variability is covering the lower values. It suggests suitability for better separation of the categories with less dense canopy, open areas, heavily disturbed or dead trees.  a)  b)   c)    Figure 6. Spatial distribution of NDVI (a), SR 800/650 (b) and NDRE (c) indices over the study site.   4. CONCLUSIONS In  this paper,  there  are presented  first results  of the  research study, aimed to employ the potential of the ultra-high resolution multispectral  imagery  for  analysis  of  the  signal  of  forest disturbance and regeneration in the montane spruce forest. The research was focused on a study site featuring the key stages of forest health status occurring in the area, including the healthy, disturbed  and  dead  trees,  the  open  areas,  and  newly regenerating vegetation.   The multirotor UAV equipped with the multispectral camera μ-MCA Snap  6 was first  applied to test  the applicability of the sensor for such analysis on  the example of mid-latitude forest, attacked by  the extensive bark beetle  infestation.  The spectral bands  of  the  μ-MCA  Snap  6  sensor  were  set  to  cover  the reflectance in green, red, red edge and near infrared zone (550, 650, 700, 800, 850 and 900 nm) with a relatively narrow  band width  (20  nm).  Based  on  the  acquired  imagery  there  was calculated a set of spectral indexes, applied in forest disturbance studies.  For the  given indexes and there was tested  the distribution of values  in  the  test  sites,  reflecting  the  samples  of  the  key categories of the forest status. Most of the tested indexes were able  to  correctly  distinguish  the  boundary  categories represented  by  the  healthy  and  dead  trees.  The  Anthocyanin reflectance index or  Red-edge GNDVI  were only  two indexes unable to separate even such distinct categories of forest status and thus were excluded from the  further analyses of the forest disturbance with  the given data. The testing,  however, proved that  the  distinct  separation  is  difficult  for  the  categories reflecting the transition  of the  status or featuring a mixture of categories  like  the  slightly  or  heavily  infested  trees  or  the regenerating forest. There were identified  only three  indexes - NDVI,  SR  800/650  Pigment  Specific  simple  ratio  B1  and NDRE, where the selected categories forest status are reflected by  crisp  ranges of  values  with  distributions,  not overlapping with the other categories.   For  these  best  performing  indicators  there  was  tested  the distribution of values their spatial variability and sensitivity to detect different stages of forest disturbance. Although all of the indexes are  able to distinguish  event the  subtle differences in the  forest status,  they  have  varyingly skewed distributions  of values, resulting in  diverse sensitivity to the different stages of forest disturbance. Thus, the NDVI index has higher variability in  the  zone  of  the  healthy  or  slightly  disturbed  forest.  In contrast, the  SR 800/650 has  higher sensitivity in the zone  of the disturbed forest cover.  The study proved the good  applicability of coupling the UAV imaging  with  multispectral  sensors  for  analysis  of  the  forest disturbance.  The  ultra-high  resolution  of  imagery  in combination  with  the  high  operability  of  UAV  imaging  is enabling  to  study  the  spatial  distribution  of  the  forest disturbance in different qualitative stages and dynamics in space and time. However, as the resolution at the level of centimetres allows  distinguishing  individual  tree  branches  or  trunks,  it brings also new challenges for interpretation and analysis, based on the uneasy treatment of transient or mixed categories.  The narrow  bands of the  multispectral sensor allow using  the indexes, sensitive to the area of values according to the needs of the  task.  As  the  μ-MCA  sensor  allows  working  with  used defined  spectral bands,  the further challenge  is in  also in  the 



 testing of configurations of the spectral bands,  in particular  in the red-edge and near-infrared zone, which might result in more accurate detection of the signal of forest disturbance.   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The  research  was  supported  by  the  EU  COST  Action  1306 project  LD15130  “Impact  of  landscape  disturbance  on  the stream and basin connectivity”. The  authors  would like  to thank  Theodora Lendzioch for  her kind help with collecting the UAV imagery and support. REFERENCES Adamczyk,  J.  and  Osberger,  A.,  2015.  Red-edge  vegetation indices  for  detecting  and  assessing  disturbances  in  Norway spruce  dominated  mountain  forests.  International  Journal  of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, 37, pp. 90-99.  Barnes, E. M.,  Clarke, T.  R., Richards, S. E., Colaizzi, P.  D., Haberland,  J.,  Kostrzewski,  M.,  Waller,  P.,  Choi,  C.  and Lascano, R. J., 2000. Coincident detection of crop water stress, nitrogen  status  and  canopy  density  using  ground  based multispectral  data.  In:  Proceedings  of  the  5th  International Conference on Precision Agriculture, Bloomington, MN, July, pp. 16-19.  Berni,  J.  A., Zarco-Tejada,  P.  J., Suárez,  L.  and Fereres,  E., 2009. Thermal and narrowband multispectral remote sensing for vegetation  monitoring  from  an  unmanned  aerial  vehicle. Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on, 47(3), pp. 722-738.  Blackburn,  G.  A.,  1998.  Quantifying  chlorophylls  and caroteniods  at leaf and  canopy scales:  An evaluation of  some hyperspectral  approaches.  Remote  sensing  of  environment, 66(3), pp. 273-285.  Borrelli,  P.,  Panagos,  P.,  Langhammer,  J.,  Apostol,  B.  and Schütt, B., 2016. Assessment of the cover changes and the soil loss potential  in European forestland: First approach to derive indicators  to  capture  the  ecological  impacts  on  soil-related forest ecosystems. Ecological Indicators, 60, pp. 1208-1220.  Buschmann, C. and Nagel, E., 1993. In vivo spectroscopy and internal  optics  of  leaves  as  basis  for  remote  sensing  of vegetation. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 14(4), pp. 711-722.  Campbell,  P. E.,  Rock, B.  N.,  Martin, M.  E., Neefus, C.  D., Irons,  J.  R.,  Middleton,  E.  M.  and  Albrechtova,  J.,  2004. Detection  of initial  damage in  Norway spruce  canopies using hyperspectral  airborne  data.  International  Journal  of  Remote Sensing, 25(24), pp. 5557-5584.  Chambers, J. Q., Asner, G. P., Morton, D. C., Anderson, L. O., Saatchi, S. S., Espírito-Santo, F. D., Palace, M.  and Souza, C., 2007.  Regional  ecosystem  structure  and  function:  ecological insights  from  remote  sensing  of  tropical  forests.  Trends  in Ecology & Evolution, 22(8), pp. 414-423.  Datt, B., 1998. Remote sensing of chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, chlorophyll  a+b,  and  total  carotenoid  content  in  eucalyptus leaves. Remote Sensing of Environment, 66(2), pp. 111-121.  Datt, B., 1999. Visible/near infrared reflectance and chlorophyll content in  Eucalyptus leaves.  International Journal of Remote Sensing, 20(14), pp. 2741-2759.  Frelich, L. E., 2002. Forest dynamics and disturbance regimes, studies from temperate evergreen-deciduous forests. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.  Gitelson, A. A. and Merzlyak, M. N., 1997. Remote estimation of  chlorophyll  content  in  higher  plant  leaves.  International Journal of Remote Sensing, 18(12), pp. 2691-2697.  Gitelson, A. A., Zur, Y., Chivkunova, O. B. and Merzlyak, M. N.,  2002.  Assessing  carotenoid  content  in  plant  leaves  with reflectance  spectroscopy.  Photochemistry  and  Photobiology, 75(3), pp. 272-281.  Gitelson,  A.  A.,  Keydan,  G.  P.  and Merzlyak,  M.  N.,  2006. Three‐band  model  for  noninvasive estimation  of  chlorophyll, carotenoids,  and  anthocyanin contents  in  higher plant  leaves. Geophysical research letters, 33(11), pp. 1-5.  Göthlin, E., Schroeder, L. M. and Lindelöw, A., 2000. Attacks by  Ips  typographus  and  Pityogenes  chalcographus  on windthrown  spruces  (Picea  abies)  during  the  two  years following  a  storm  felling.  Scandinavian  Journal  of  Forest Research, 15(5), pp. 542-549.  Hais, M.,  Jonášová, M., Langhammer, J.  and Kučera, T., 2009. Comparison  of  two  types  of  forest  disturbance  using multitemporal Landsat TM/ETM+ imagery and field vegetation data. Remote Sensing of Environment, 113(4), pp. 835-845.  Heurich, M.,  Ochs, T.,  Andresen, T.  and Schneider, T., 2010. Object-orientated  image  analysis  for  the  semi-automatic detection  of  dead  trees  following  a  spruce  bark  beetle  (Ips typographus)  outbreak. European  Journal  of  Forest Research, 129(3), pp. 313-324.  Kulakowski,  D.  and  Bebi, P.,  2004.  Range  of Variability  of unmanaged  subalpine  forests.  In:  Conference  proceedings: Forum  für  Wissen:  Schutzwald  und  Naturgefahren,  Davos, Switzerland. October 28–29, pp. 47–54.  Laliberte, A. S., Goforth, M.  A., Steele, C. M. and Rango,  A., 2011.  Multispectral  remote  sensing  from  unmanned  aircraft: Image  processing  workflows  and  applications  for  rangeland environments. Remote Sensing, 3(11), pp. 2529-2551.  Langhammer,  J.,  Su,  Y.  and  Bernsteinová,  J.,  2015.  Runoff Response  to  Climate  Warming  and  Forest  Disturbance  in  a Mid-Mountain Basin. Water, 7(7), pp. 3320-3342.  Latifi, H., Schumann, B., Kautz, M. and Dech, S., 2014. Spatial characterization  of  bark  beetle  infestations  by  a  multidate synergy  of  SPOT  and  Landsat  imagery. Environmental monitoring and assessment, 186(1), pp. 441-456.  Lausch, A., Heurich, M., Gordalla, D., Dobner, H. J., Gwillym-Margianto, S. and Salbach, C., 2013. Forecasting potential bark beetle  outbreaks  based  on  spruce  forest  vitality  using hyperspectral  remote-sensing  techniques  at  different  scales. Forest Ecology and Management, 308, pp. 76-89.   



 Lehmann,  J. R.  K.,  Nieberding,  F., Prinz,  T.  and  Knoth, C., 2015. Analysis of unmanned aerial system-based CIR images in forestry—A new perspective to monitor pest infestation levels. Forests, 6(3), pp. 594-612.  Le  Maire,  G.,  Francois,  C.  and  Dufrene,  E.,  2004.  Towards universal  broad  leaf  chlorophyll  indices  using  PROSPECT simulated  database  and  hyperspectral  reflectance measurements. Remote sensing of environment, 89(1), pp. 1-28.  Lindner, M., Maroschek, M., Netherer, S., Kremer, A., Barbati, A.,  Garcia-Gonzalo,  J.,  Seidl,  R.,  Delzon,  S.,  Corona,  P., Kolström, M.,  Lexer, M. J.  and Marchetti, M., 2010. Climate change  impacts,  adaptive  capacity,  and  vulnerability  of European forest ecosystems. Forest Ecology and Management, 259(4), pp. 698-709.  Masaitis, G., Mozgeris, G. and Augustaitis, A., 2013. Spectral reflectance properties of  healthy and stressed  coniferous trees. Iforest-biogeosciences and Forestry, 6(1), pp. 30-36.    Näsi,  R.,  Honkavaara,  E.,  Lyytikäinen-Saarenmaa,  P., Blomqvist, M., Litkey, P.,  Hakala, T., Viljen,  N., Kantola,  T., Tanhuanpää, T. and Holopainen, M., 2015. Using  UAV-Based Photogrammetry and  Hyperspectral Imaging for Mapping Bark Beetle  Damage  at  Tree-Level.  Remote  Sensing,  7(11), pp. 15467-15493.  Ortiz,  S.  M.,  Breidenbach,  J.  and  Kändler,  G.,  2013.  Early detection  of  bark  beetle  green  attack  using TerraSAR-X  and RapidEye data. Remote Sensing, 5(4), pp. 1912-1931.  Salamí,  E.,  Barrado,  C.  and  Pastor,  E.,  2014.  UAV  flight experiments applied  to the  remote sensing  of vegetated areas. Remote Sensing, 6(11), pp. 11051-11081.  Tetracam, 2015. Tetracam µ-MCA User's Guide, Tetracam Inc., Los Angeles, CA, USA.  Topcon,  2012.  HiPer  SR  Operator´s  manual,  Topcon Positioning Systems, Inc., Livermore, CA, USA.  Tucker,  C.  J.,  1979.  Red  and  photographic  infrared  linear combinations  for  monitoring  vegetation.  Remote  sensing  of Environment, 8(2), pp. 127-150.  Tuominen, J., Lipping, T., Kuosmanen, V., and Haapanen, R., 2009.  Remote  sensing  of  forest  health.  In:  Geoscience  and Remote Sensing, InTech, Rijeka, Croatia, pp. 29–52.  Turner, D., Lucieer, A. and Watson, C., 2011. Development of an  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicle  (UAV)  for  hyper  resolution vineyard mapping based on  visible, multispectral,  and thermal imagery. In: Proceedings of  34th International Symposium  on Remote Sensing of Environment, Sydney, NSW, Australia, 10–15 April, pp. 1-4.  Turner,  D.,  Lucieer,  A.,  Malenovský,  Z.,  King,  D.  H.,  and Robinson,  S.  A.,  2014.  Spatial  co-registration  of  ultra-high resolution  visible,  multispectral  and  thermal  images  acquired with  a  micro-UAV  over  Antarctic  Moss  Beds. Remote Sensing, 6(5), pp. 4003-4024.    Verhoeven,  G.,  2011.  Taking  computer  vision  aloft–archaeological  three‐dimensional  reconstructions  from  aerial photographs  with  photoscan.  Archaeological Prospection, 18(1), pp. 67-73.  Zhang,  C. and Kovacs,  J. M., 2012.  The application of  small unmanned  aerial  systems  for  precision  agriculture:  a  review. Precision agriculture, 13(6), pp. 693-712. 


 USE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICS.pdf8.49 MBDownload full-textCitations (4)References (37)... Results obtained in this study regarding the significance of vegetation indices concurs with previous studies of Minařík and Langhammer [54], Metternicht [34] and Hart and Veblen [55]. According to Gitelson and Merzlyak [30], they identified that healthy and unhealthy (stressed) vegetation is mostly observed in the green peak and vegetation red edge region, hence vegetation indices such as PVR and GNDVI yielded an outstanding performance in detecting the probability of C. tristis occurring.  ...... In addition, a combination of two robust bands (NIR and Red) strengthens the probability of modelling and picking up vegetation characteristics that indicate the occurrence of pests. Therefore, different studies have stated that the integration of NIR and band 4 (NDVI) and vegetation indices derived from the red edge bands have enhanced the prediction of pests [19,21,54]. For example, Hart and Veblen [56] illustrated that the vegetation indices were the most important predictors to detect tree mortality caused by spruce beetle (Dendroctonus rufipennis) at grey-stage.  ...... In determining the probability of the occurrence of C. tristis, results of this study further revealed the significant potential of the SWIR region. This region has the ability to map vegetation statues due to its sensitivity to changes in the water content of vegetation [54,55]. Generally, the larva of C. tristis feeds on the cambium, which is responsible for providing layers of phloem and xylem in E. nitens plantations.  ...Using Sentinel-2 Multispectral Images to Map the Occurrence of the Cossid Moth (Coryphodema tristis) in Eucalyptus Nitens Plantations of Mpumalanga, South AfricaArticleFull-text availableJan 2019 Samuel Taku KumbulaParamu Mafongoya Kabir Y Peerbhay Riyad IsmailCoryphodema tristis is a wood-boring insect, indigenous to South Africa, that has recently been identified as an emerging pest feeding on Eucalyptus nitens, resulting in extensive damage and economic loss. Eucalyptus plantations contributes over 9% to the total exported manufactured goods of South Africa which contributes significantly to the gross domestic product. Currently, the distribution extent of the Coryphodema tristis is unknown and estimated to infest Eucalyptus nitens compartments from less than 1% to nearly 80%, which is certainly a concern for the forestry sector related to the quantity and quality of yield produced. Therefore, the study sought to model the probability of occurrence of Coryphodema tristis on Eucalyptus nitens plantations in Mpumalanga, South Africa, using data from the Sentinel-2 multispectral instrument (MSI). Traditional field surveys were carried out through mass trapping in all compartments (n = 878) of Eucalyptus nitens plantations. Only 371 Eucalyptus nitens compartments were positively identified as infested and were used to generate the Coryphodema tristis presence data. Presence data and spectral features from the area were analysed using the Maxent algorithm. Model performance was evaluated using the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve showing the area under the curve (AUC) and True Skill Statistic (TSS) while the performance of predictors was analysed with the jack-knife. Validation of results were conducted using the test data. Using only the occurrence data and Sentinel-2 bands and derived vegetation indices, the Maxent model provided successful results, exhibiting an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.890. The Photosynthetic vigour ratio, Band 5 (Red edge 1), Band 4 (Red), Green NDVI hyper, Band 3 (Green) and Band 12 (SWIR 2) were identified as the most influential predictor variables. Results of this study suggest that remotely sensed derived vegetation indices from cost-effective platforms could play a crucial role in supporting forest pest management strategies and infestation control.ViewShow abstract... In contrast to previous findings, red edge data did not offer earlier detection of physiological stress than the near infrared data [186]. Accordingly, the near infrared zone as well as the red edge band can reveal stress caused by bark beetle infestation in Norway spruce trees [189].  ...Acquisition of Forest Attributes for Decision Support at the Forest Enterprise Level Using Remote-Sensing Techniques—A ReviewArticleFull-text availableMar 2019 Peter Surovy Karel KuželkaIn recent decades, remote sensing techniques and the associated hardware and software have made substantial improvements. With satellite images that can obtain sub-meter spatial resolution, and new hardware, particularly unmanned aerial vehicles and systems, there are many emerging opportunities for improved data acquisition, including variable temporal and spectral resolutions. Combined with the evolution of techniques for aerial remote sensing, such as full wave laser scanners, hyperspectral scanners, and aerial radar sensors, the potential to incorporate this new data in forest management is enormous. Here we provide an overview of the current state-of-the-art remote sensing techniques for large forest areas thousands or tens of thousands of hectares. We examined modern remote sensing techniques used to obtain forest data that are directly applicable to decision making issues, and we provided a general overview of the types of data that can be obtained using remote sensing. The most easily accessible forest variable described in many works is stand or tree height, followed by other inventory variables like basal area, tree number, diameters, and volume, which are crucial in decision making process, especially for thinning and harvest planning, and timber transport optimization. Information about zonation and species composition are often described as more difficult to assess; however, this information usually is not required on annual basis. Counts of studies on forest health show an increasing trend in the last years, mostly in context of availability of new sensors as well as increased forest vulnerability caused by climate change; by virtue to modern sensors interesting methods were developed for detection of stressed or damaged trees. Unexpectedly few works focus on regeneration and seedlings evaluation; though regenerated stands should be regularly monitored in order to maintain forest cover sustainability.ViewShow abstract... where RED and NIR stand for the different spectral reflectance measurements, and near-infrared regions, respectively. It is interesting to note that as a conse- quence, NDVI values range from -1.0 to þ1.0 and can be calculated as long as the information linked to the near reflectance data and red is obtained [19]. In the presented research, this information is reflected in raster images in which different pixels present a reflectance value of the object captured by remote sensing.  ...Mapping multispectral Digital Images using a Cloud Computing software: applications from UAV imagesArticleFull-text availableMar 2019 José Ramón Saura Ana Reyes-Menendez Pedro R. Palos-SanchezDue to technology development related to agricultural production, aircrafts such as the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and technologies such as Multispectral photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, have great potential in supporting some of the pressing problems faced by agricultural production in terms of analysis and testing of variables. This paper reports an experience related to the analysis of a vineyard with multispectral photogrammetry technology and UAVs and it demonstrates its great potential to analyze the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), the Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) and the Digital Elevation Model (DEM) applied in the agriculture framework to collect information on the vegetative state of the crop, soil and plant moisture, and biomass density maps of. In addition, the collected information is analyzed with the PIX4D Cloud Computing technology software and its advantages over software that work with other data processing are highlighted. This research shows, therefore, the possibility that efficient plantations can be developed with the use of multispectral photogrammetry and the analysis of digital images from this process.ViewShow abstract... Nevertheless, such mineral identification and assemblages' discrimination could be greatly enhanced using multi-or even hyper-spectral sensors that could range from the visible up to infrared spectral bands (e.g., Campbell and Wynne, 2011; Van der Meer et al., 2012 and references therein). Such sensors are already widely used in routine for aerial terrestrial and extra-terrestrial remote sensing but combining large spectral acquisi- tion imaging with digital SfM photogrammetry directly in the field is still in its relatively early stages of development and applicability in geosciences (Minařík and Langhammer, 2016) covering more archae- ological purposes at the moment ( Jaillet et al., 2017;Pamart et al., 2017;Uueni et al., 2017). For hydrological purposes too, this could have great implications for the detection and the monitoring of moist zones at the outcrop-but also karstic network-scale following litholo- gies, opening the door to a better understanding of aquifer recharge and groundwater storage regarding the response/control of the lithostrati- graphic pile.  ...3-D digital outcrop model for analysis of brittle deformation and lithological mapping (Lorette cave, Belgium)ArticleFull-text availableJan 2019J STRUCT GEOL Antoine Triantafyllou Arnaud Watlet S. Le Mouélic Sara VandyckeAcquiring and building Digital Outcrop Models (DOM) becomes an essential approach in geosciences. This study highlights the strong potential of Structure-from-motion (SfM) photogrammetry for full-3D mapping of inaccessible outcrops, combining pictures captured from field and from unmanned aerial vehicle-embedded digital cameras. We present a workflow for (i) acquiring and reconstructing a DOM of a geometrically complex natural cave site using digital photogrammetry in a lowlight environment, (ii) georeferencing the 3D model in underground environments, (iii) identifying and characterizing the geometry of inaccessible geological structures and their tectonic kinematics (e.g., faults, joints, sedimentary bedding planes, slickenlines) for structural geology purposes.
We illustrate our method by modelling a challenging case study: the main chamber of the Lorette cave (Rochefort Cave Laboratory, Belgium). First, we produced a high resolution, highly realistic model made of 395 million points cloud. This allowed to draw a detailed lithostratigraphic log of the exposed sedimentary pile, alternating decimetric carbonate mudstones with minor centimetric clay-rich layers. Secondly, we extract the orientation of brittle structures from the cave DOM which consist of joints, calcite-filled veins, fault planes with observable slickenlines and their kinematic indicators. Calcitic veins consist of tension gashes structures. Two subsets of tension gashes are distinguished based on their orientation (WNW-striking with low- vs subhorizontal dips) and morphology (planar vs en-echelon sigmoidal veins). Two faults subsets are identified: (i) a first one comprises south-dipping fault planes with mean strike-dip of N069-S42 and consist of bedding surface slip; (ii) a second one which corresponds to neoformed north-dipping faults (mean strike-dip: N279-N60). We recognize and characterize tectonic markers on fault planes directly from the high-resolution DOM (slickenlines and asymmetrical microscarps) pointing to a reverse shearing movement for all investigated faults. 
Based on their geometrical relations and fault-slip data, paleostress reconstruction points to a NW-SE to NNW-SSE subhorizontal compressive regime. This one is interpreted as the record of early phases of Variscan tectonics during the fold-to-fault progression. This research paper also highlights future possibilities for rapid semi-automatic interpretation of such 3D dataset for structural geology purposes as well as advances in technology and perspectives in terms of risk assessments and mitigation.ViewShow abstractShow moreUsing UAV-Based Photogrammetry and Hyperspectral Imaging for Mapping Bark Beetle Damage at Tree-LevelArticleFull-text availableNov 2015 Roope Näsi Eija Honkavaara Lyytikainen-Saarenmaa Paivi Markus HolopainenLow-cost, miniaturized hyperspectral imaging technology is becoming available for small unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) platforms. This technology can be efficient in carrying out small-area inspections of anomalous reflectance characteristics of trees at a very high level of detail. Increased frequency and intensity of insect induced forest disturbance has established a new demand for effective methods suitable in mapping and monitoring tasks. In this investigation, a novel miniaturized hyperspectral frame imaging sensor operating in the wavelength range of 500-900 nm was used to identify mature Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karst.) trees suffering from infestation, representing a different outbreak phase, by the European spruce bark beetle (Ips typographus L.). We developed a new processing method for analyzing spectral characteristic for high spatial resolution photogrammetric and hyperspectral images in forested environments, as well as for identifying individual anomalous trees. The dense point clouds, measured using image matching, enabled detection of single trees with an accuracy of 74.7%. We classified the trees into classes of healthy, infested and dead, and the results were promising. The best results for the overall accuracy were 76% (Cohen's kappa 0.60), when using three color classes (healthy, infested, dead). For two color classes (healthy, dead), the best overall accuracy was 90% (kappa 0.80). The survey methodology based on high-resolution hyperspectral imaging will be of a high practical value for forest health management, indicating a status of bark beetle outbreak in time.ViewShow abstractAssessment of the cover changes and the soil loss potential in European forestland: First approach to derive indicators to capture the ecological impacts on soil-related forest ecosystemsArticleFull-text availableJan 2016ECOL INDIC Pasquale Borrelli Panos Panagos Jakub Langhammer Brigitta SchüttThe Member States of the European Union have committed to the maintenance and protection of forest lands. More precisely, the Member States aim to ensure the sustainable development and management of the EU's forests. For 2013, Eurostat's statistics about primary and secondary wood products in the European forest land (65% thereof privately owned) estimate a roundwood production of 435 million m 3 in total. Harmonised information, i.e., spatially and temporarily differentiated, on forestry and wood harvesting activities in the European forests are missing however. This lack of information impedes the scientific assessment of the impacts that forest management practices have on the soil-related forest ecosystems (e.g., accelerated water soil erosion, delivery of inert sediments and pollutants within the drainage network, pauperization of aquatic ecosystems). It also prevents national and European institutions from taking measures aimed at an effective mitigation of the rapidly advancing land degradation. This study provides a first pan-European analysis that delineates the spatial patterns of forest cover changes in 36 countries. The first dynamic assessment of the soil loss potential in the EU-28 forests is reported. The recently published High-resolution Global Forest Cover Loss map (2000–2012) was reprocessed and validated. Results show that the map is a powerful tool to spatiotemporally indicate the forest sectors that are exposed to cover change risks. The accuracy assessment performed by using a confusion matrix based on 2300 reference forest disturbances distributed across Europe shows values of 55.1% (producer accuracy) for the algorithm-derived forest cover change areas with a Kappa Index of Agreement (KIA) of 0.672. New insights into the distribution of the forest disturbance in Europe and the resulting soil loss potential were obtained. The presented maps provide spatially explicit indicators to assess the human-induced impacts of land cover changes and soil losses on the European soil-related forest ecosystems. These insights are relevant (i) to support policy making and land management decisions to ensure a sustainable forest management strategy and (ii) to provide a solid basis for further spatiotemporal investigations of the forestry practices' impacts on the European forest ecosystems.ViewShow abstractRunoff Response to Climate Warming and Forest Disturbance in a Mid-Mountain BasinArticleFull-text availableJun 2015 Jakub Langhammer Ye Su Jana BernsteinováA headwater basin in the Sumava Mountains (Czech Republic), the upper Vydra basin, has undergone forest disturbance as a result of repeated windstorms, a bark beetle outbreak, and forest management. This study analyzed the long-term (1961–2010) hydro-climatic changes by using a combination of statistical analyses, including Mann-Kendall tests, CUSUM analysis, Buishand's and Petitt's homogeneity tests, and Kriging. Although the runoff balance over the study period experienced no apparent changes due to climate warming and forest disturbance, significant changes were detected in the share of direct runoff and baseflow, intra-annual variability of the runoff regime, seasonal runoff patterns, and the distribution of peak and low flow events. The seasonal runoff substantially shifted from summers (decreased from 40% to 28%) to springs (increased by 10%). The occurrence of peak flow events has doubled since the 1980s, with a seasonal shift from late spring towards the early spring, while the occurrence of low-flow days decreased by two-thirds. By 1990, these changes were followed by a seasonal shift in runoff from autumn to midwinter. The changes in hydrological regime in the mid-mountain basin indicate the sensitivity of its hydrological system and the complexity of its feedback with the changing environment.ViewShow abstractSpectral reflectance properties of healthy and stressed coniferous treesArticleFull-text availableJan 2013Gediminas Masaitis Gintautas Mozgeris Algirdas AugustaitisThis study investigates the properties of hyperspectral reflectance of healthy and stressed coniferous trees. Two coniferous tree species which naturally grow in Lithuania, Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.), as well as an introduced species, Siberian pine (Pinus sibirica Du Tour), were selected for the study. Hyperspectral reflectance data were collected under laboratory conditions by scanning the needles of healthy (no foliar loss) and stressed Norway spruce (foliar loss 66-70%), Scots pine (foliar loss 71-75%) and Siberian pine (foliar loss 86-90%) trees using a Themis Vision Systems VNIR 400H hyperspectral imaging camera. The spectrometer of the camera covers the spectral range of 400-1000 nm with the sampling interval of 0.6 nm. Simultaneously, the chlorophyll a and b content in the needles was determined by spectrophotometrically measuring the needles' absorbance of ethanol extracts. The statistical analyses included principal component analysis, analysis of variance and partial least squares regression techniques. Relatively large spectral differences between healthy and stressed trees were detected for Norway spruce needles: 884 out of 955 wavebands indicated a statistically different reflectance (p<0.05). The reflectance associated with the stress level was statistically different (p<0.05) in 767 and 698 out of 955 wavebands for Scots pine and Siberian pine, respectively. The most informative wavelengths for spectral separation between the needles taken from healthy and stressed trees were found in the following spectral ranges: 701.0-715.7 nm for Norway spruce, 706.1-718.2 nm for Scots pine, and 862.3-893.1 nm for Siberian pine. The relationship between the spectral reflectance properties of the needles and their chlorophyll content was also determined for each species. Waveband ranges (as well as single bands) most sensitive to changes in chlorophyll content were: 709.9-722.1 nm (715.6 nm) for Norway spruce; 709.3-721.4 nm (715.0 nm) for Scots pine; 710.6-722.7 nm (720.1 nm) for Siberian pine. In general, the study revealed that narrow-band based hyperspectral imaging has the potential for accurately detecting stress in coniferous trees.ViewShow abstractAnalysis of Unmanned Aerial System-Based CIR Images in Forestry—A New Perspective to Monitor Pest Infestation LevelsArticleFull-text availableMar 2015 Jan R. K. Lehmann Felix Nieberding Torsten PrinzChristian KnothThe detection of pest infestation is an important aspect of forest management. In the case of the oak splendour beetle (Agrilus biguttatus) infestation, the affected oaks (Quercus sp.) show high levels of defoliation and altered canopy reflection signature. These critical features can be identified in high-resolution colour infrared (CIR) images of the tree crown and branches level captured by Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). In this study, we used a small UAS equipped with a compact digital camera which has been calibrated and modified to record not only the visual but also the near infrared reflection (NIR) of possibly infested oaks. The flight campaigns were realized in August 2013, covering two study sites which are located in a rural area in western Germany. Both locations represent small-scale, privately managed commercial forests in which oaks are economically valuable species. Our workflow includes the CIR/NIR image acquisition, mosaicking, georeferencing and pixel-based image enhancement followed by object-based image classification techniques. A modified Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVImod) derived classification was used to distinguish between five vegetation health classes, i.e., infested, healthy or dead branches, other vegetation and canopy gaps. We achieved an overall Kappa Index of Agreement (KIA) of 0.81 and 0.77 for each study site, respectively. This approach offers a low-cost alternative to private forest owners who pursue a sustainable management strategy.ViewShow abstractRed-edge vegetation indices for detecting and assessing disturbances in Norway spruce dominated mountain forestsArticleMay 2015INT J APPL EARTH OBS Joanna AdamczykAntonia OsbergerHere we propose an approach to enhance the detection and assessment of forest disturbances in mountain areas based on red-edge reflectance. The research addresses the need for improved monitoring of areas included in the European Natura 2000 network. Thirty-eight vegetation indices (VI) are assessed for sensitivity to topographic variations. A separability analysis is performed for the resulting set of ten VI whereby two VI (PSSRc2, SR 800/550) are found most suitable for threshold-based OBIA classification. With a correlation analysis (SRCC) between VI and the training samples we identify Datt4 as suitable to represent the magnitude of forest disturbance. The provided information layers illustrate two combined phenomena that were derived by (1) an OBIA delineation and (2) continuous representation of the magnitude of forest disturbance. The satisfactory accuracy assessment results confirm that the approach is useful for operational tasks in the long-term monitoring of Norway spruce dominated forests in mountainous areas, with regard to forest disturbance.ViewShow abstractUAV Flight Experiments Applied to the Remote Sensing of Vegetated AreasArticleFull-text availableNov 2014 Esther Salamí Cristina Barrado Enric PastorThe miniaturization of electronics, computers and sensors has created new opportunities for remote sensing applications. Despite the current restrictions on regulation, the use of unmanned aerial vehicles equipped with small thermal, laser or spectral sensors has emerged as a promising alternative for assisting modeling, mapping and monitoring applications in rangelands, forests and agricultural environments. This review provides an overview of recent research that has reported UAV flight experiments on the remote sensing of vegetated areas. To provide a differential trend to other reviews, this paper is not limited to crops and precision agriculture applications, but also includes forest and rangeland applications. This work follows a top-down categorization strategy and attempts to fill the gap between application requirements and the characteristics of selected tools, payloads and platforms. Furthermore, correlations between common requirements and the most frequently used solutions are highlighted.ViewShow abstractSpatial Co-Registration of Ultra-High Resolution Visible, Multispectral and Thermal Images Acquired with a Micro-UAV over Antarctic Moss BedsArticleFull-text availableMay 2014 Darren Turner Arko Lucieer Zbyněk Malenovský Sharon A RobinsonIn recent times, the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) as tools for environmental remote sensing has become more commonplace. Compared to traditional airborne remote sensing, UAVs can provide finer spatial resolution data (up to 1 cm/pixel) and higher temporal resolution data. For the purposes of vegetation monitoring, the use of multiple sensors such as near infrared and thermal infrared cameras are of benefit. Collecting data with multiple sensors, however, requires an accurate spatial co-registration of the various UAV image datasets. In this study, we used an Oktokopter UAV to investigate the physiological state of Antarctic moss ecosystems using three sensors: (i) a visible camera (1 cm/pixel), (ii) a 6 band multispectral camera (3 cm/pixel), and (iii) a thermal infrared camera (10 cm/pixel). Imagery from each sensor was geo-referenced and mosaicked with a combination of commercially available software and our own algorithms based on the Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT). The validation of the mosaic's spatial co-registration revealed a mean root mean squared error (RMSE) of 1.78 pixels. A thematic map of moss health, derived from the multispectral mosaic using a Modified Triangular Vegetation Index (MTVI2), and an indicative map of moss surface temperature were then combined to demonstrate sufficient accuracy of our co-registration methodology for UAV-based monitoring of Antarctic moss beds.ViewShow abstractRemote Sensing of Chlorophyll a, Chlorophyll b, Chlorophyll a+b, and Total Carotenoid Content in Eucalyptus LeavesArticleNov 1998REMOTE SENS ENVIRONB. DattAlgorithms based on reflectance band ratios have been developed for the remote estimation of chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, chlorophyll a+b, and total carotenoid content of Eucalyptus leaves. Reflectance spectra over the 400–2500 nm range with a spectral resolution of 2 nm and the content of chlorophylls a, b, a+b, and total carotenoids were determined for leaves from several Eucalyptus species covering a wide range of chlorophyll a content (0.0121–0.0435 mg/cm2). Maximum sensitivity of reflectance to variation in pigment content was found in the green wavelength region at 550 nm and at 708 nm in the far-red wavelengths. The reflectance in the main pigment absorption regions in the blue (400–500 nm) and red (660–690 nm) wavelengths proved to be insensitive to variation in pigment content. The ratio R672/(R550× R708) correlated best with chlorophyll a, chlorophyll a+b, and total carotenoid contents. The ratio R672/R550 correlated best with chlorophyll b content. Reflectance ratios involving near infrared bands such as R750/R550 and R750/R700 did not correlate well with pigment content. This was due to the differential scattering effects of the wide range of young and mature leaf samples. A method was developed for adjusting all spectra to the same level of scatter. The near-infrared-based reflectance ratios from the scatter adjusted spectra showed high sensitivity to pigment content. The ratio R860/(R550×R708) from the scatter adjusted spectra correlated best with chlorophyll a, chlorophyll a+b, and total carotenoid contents, while R860/R550 correlated best with chlorophyll b content. The newly developed algorithms were tested on a validation data set and allowed accurate estimates of leaf pigment content. The pigment contents estimated by the ratios from untransformed spectra, R672/(R550×R708) and R672/R550, were found to be not significantly different from the estimates obtained using the scatter-adjusted reflectance ratios, R860/(R550×R708) and R860/R550.ViewShow abstractEarly detection of Bark beetle green attack using TerraSAR-X and RapidEye DataArticleFull-text availableApr 2013 Sonia Ortiz Johannes Breidenbach Gerald KändlerBark beetles cause widespread damages in the coniferous-dominated forests of central Europe and North America. In the future, areas affected by bark beetles may further increase due to climate change. However, the early detection of the bark beetle green attack can guide management decisions to prevent larger damages. For this reason, a field-based bark beetle monitoring program is currently implemented in Germany. The combination of remote sensing and field data may help minimizing the reaction time and reducing costs of monitoring programs covering large forested areas. In this case study, RapidEye and TerraSAR-X data were analyzed separately and in combination to detect bark beetle green attack. The remote sensing data were acquired in May 2009 for a study site in south-west Germany. In order to distinguish healthy areas and areas affected by bark beetle green attack, three statistical approaches were compared: generalized linear models (GLM), maximum entropy (ME) and random forest (RF). The spatial scale (minimum mapping unit) was 78.5 m(2). TerraSAR-X data resulted in fair classification accuracy with a cross-validated Cohen's Kappa Coefficient (kappa) of 0.23. RapidEye data resulted in moderate classification accuracy with a kappa of 0.51. The highest classification accuracy was obtained by combining the TerraSAR-X and RapidEye data, resulting in a kappa of 0.74. The accuracy of ME models was considerably higher than the accuracy of GLM and RF models.ViewShow abstractShow moreJoin ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work.15+ million members118+ million publications700k+ research projectsJoin for freeRecommendationsDiscover more publications, questions and projects in UAVProjectThe impact of forest disturbance on the dynamics of fluvial processes in mountain catchments Jakub Langhammer Filip Hartvich Theodora Lendzioch[...] Jerker JarsjöThe research examines the impact of disturbances in mountain landscapes, particularly changes in the structure, extent and health of forest vegetation as a result of different causal processes on t he connectivity and dynamics of fluvial processes.

The research is focused on different types of landscape and forest disturbance, induced by different causal factors, such as the forest vegetation damage by pollution, bark beetle outbreak, wind storms or forest management, or modifications of river network, riverbed and floodplains. The effect of these changes on stream and basin connectivity and on the dynamics of runoff and fluvial processes is analyzed using advanced technologies of remote sensing, non invasive detection and monitoring of processes, field survey and mapping and application of geostatistic and modelling tools.

The research is conducted in framework of several research schemes, allowing assess the changing response and dynamics of processes in long term perspective, enabling continuous monitoring of processes and analyses in time span, corresponding to the time scale of the assessed processes. 

The study areas are situated in mid latitude mountain evironment in Central Europe, which represent very sensitive indicator of the impact of environmental changes on the dynamics of fluvial processes. The core research area is located in the headwaters of the Sumava and Ore Mountains, as examples of areas affected by different manifestations of disturbances of forest vegetation and anthropogenic modifcations of streams. ... [more]View projectProjectSpatial and temporal dynamics of hydrometeorological extremes in montane areas Jakub Langhammer Milada Matoušková Ye SuThe research project aims at identification of changes in dynamics of extreme hydrometeorological processes in mountain basins, having a major effect on the Czech Republic's hydrological regime. 
T he research fills the gaps in knowledge on changing patterns in spatial distribution, frequency, seasonality and magnitude of hydrometeorological extremes in montane catchments and their key driving forces. 
The principal directions of research are: 
1)Changes in the temporal and spatial distribution of the meteorological extremes in montane headwater basins, 
2) Changes in frequency, magnitude, seasonality and spatial distribution of the hydrological extremes in montane headwater basins 
3) Regional differentiation and typology of changes in occurrence, frequency, magnitude and seasonality of hydrometeorological extremes in Czech montane basins. 
Want to know more or to join our team for a master or PhD thesis? Let's get in touch! ... [more]View projectProjectUAS monitoring of river systems response to climate change Jakub Langhammer Theodora Lendzioch Robert MinaříkThe research explores the potential of unmanned (UAS) technologies for monitoring the effects of climate change and forest disturbance on the dynamics of hydrological processes in mountain areas. T he research uses the techniques of multispectral, thermal, and LiDAR UAS monitoring of landscape elements, crucial for the formation of runoff in headwater areas. 
In particular, it focuses (i) on the detection of early stages of forest disturbance and its influence on snow cover dynamics, (ii) on the changing environment of mountain peat bogs and disturbed relief and (iii) on the changes in the morphology of watercourse channels in mountain environments under climate change conditions. 

The project LTC 19024 is supported in by the Czech Ministry of Education is a part of the COST Action CA16219 Harmonious.
PI: Prof. Jakub Langhammer ... [more]View projectArticleFull-text availableUSE OF A MULTISPECTRAL UAV PHOTOGRAMMETRY FOR DETECTION AND TRACKING OF FOREST DISTURBANCE DYNAMICSJune 2016 Robert Minařík Jakub LanghammerThis study presents a new methodological approach for assessment of spatial and qualitative aspects of forest disturbance based on the use of multispectral imaging camera with the UAV photogrammetry. We have used the miniaturized multispectral sensor Tetracam Micro Multiple Camera Array (μ-MCA) Snap 6 with the multirotor imaging platform to get multispectral imagery with high spatial resolution. ... [Show full abstract] The study area is located in the Sumava Mountains, Central Europe, heavily affected by windstorms, followed by extensive and repeated bark beetle (Ips typographus [L.]) outbreaks in the past 20 years. After two decades, there is apparent continuous spread of forest disturbance as well as rapid regeneration of forest vegetation, related with changes in species and their diversity. For testing of suggested methodology, we have launched imaging campaign in experimental site under various stages of forest disturbance and regeneration. The imagery of high spatial and spectral resolution enabled to analyse the inner structure and dynamics of the processes. The most informative bands for tree stress detection caused by bark beetle infestation are band 2 (650nm) and band 3 (700nm), followed by band 4 (800 nm) from the, red-edge and NIR part of the spectrum. We have identified only three indices, which seems to be able to correctly detect different forest disturbance categories in the complex conditions of mixture of categories. These are Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Simple 800/650 Ratio Pigment specific simple ratio B1 and Red-edge Index.View full-textArticleFull-text availableUnmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) for assessment of qualitative classification of Norway spruce in temp...January 2018 · Geo-spatial Information Science Peter Surovy O. V. Brovkina Emil Cienciala Přemysl JanataThe study investigates the potential of UAV-based remote sensing technique for monitoring of Norway spruce health condition in the affected forest areas. The objectives are: (1) to test the applicability of UAV visible an near-infrared (VNIR) and geometrical data based on Z values of point dense cloud (PDC) raster to separate forest species and dead trees in the study area; (2) to explore the ... [Show full abstract] relationship between UAV VNIR data and individual spruce health indicators from field sampling; and (3) to explore the possibility of the qualitative classification of spruce health indicators. Analysis based on NDVI and PDC raster was successfully applied for separation of spruce and silver fir, and for identification of dead tree category. Separation between common beech and fir was distinguished by the object-oriented image analysis. NDVI was able to identify the presence of key indicators of spruce health, such as mechanical damage on stems and stem resin exudation linked to honey fungus infestation, while stem damage by peeling was identified at the significance margin. The results contributed to improving separation of coniferous (spruce and fir) tree species based on VNIR and PDC raster UAV data, and newly demonstrated the potential of NDVI for qualitative classification of spruce trees. The proposed methodology can be applicable for monitoring of spruce health condition in the local forest sites.View full-textArticle3-D reconstruction of an abandoned montane reservoir using UAV photogrammetry, aerial LiDAR and fiel...July 2018 · Applied Geography Jakub Langhammer Robert Minařík Bohumir Jansky Jan KocumRead moreArticleFull-text availableIntercomparison of UAV, Aircraft and Satellite Remote Sensing Platforms for Precision ViticultureMarch 2015 · Remote Sensing Alessandro Matese Piero Toscano Salvatore Filippo Di Gennaro[...] Beniamino GioliPrecision Viticulture is experiencing substantial growth thanks to the availability of improved and cost-effective instruments and methodologies for data acquisition and analysis, such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), that demonstrated to compete with traditional acquisition platforms, such as satellite and aircraft, due to low operational costs, high operational flexibility and high spatial ... [Show full abstract] resolution of imagery. In order to optimize the use of these technologies for precision viticulture, their technical, scientific and economic performances need to be assessed. The aim of this work is to compare NDVI surveys performed with UAV, aircraft and satellite, to assess the capability of each platform to represent the intra-vineyard vegetation spatial variability. NDVI images of two Italian vineyards were acquired simultaneously from different multi-spectral sensors onboard the three platforms, and a spatial statistical framework was used to assess their degree of similarity. Moreover, the pros and cons of each technique were also assessed performing a cost analysis as a function of the scale of application. Results indicate that the different platforms provide comparable results in vineyards characterized by coarse vegetation gradients and large vegetation clusters. On the contrary, in more heterogeneous vineyards, low-resolution images fail in representing part of the intra-vineyard variability. The cost analysis showed that the adoption of UAV platform is advantageous for small areas and that a break-even point exists above five hectares; above such threshold, airborne and then satellite have lower imagery cost.View full-textArticleFull-text availableDetection of Fir Trees (Abies sibirica) Damaged by the Bark Beetle in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Images...March 2019 · Remote Sensing Anastasiia Safonova Siham Tabik Domingo Alcaraz-Segura[...] Francisco HerreraInvasion of the Polygraphus proximus Blandford bark beetle causes catastrophic damage to forests with firs (Abies sibirica Ledeb) in Russia, especially in Central Siberia. Determining tree damage stage based on the shape, texture and colour of tree crown in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) images could help to assess forest health in a faster and cheaper way. However, this task is challenging since ... [Show full abstract] (i) fir trees at different damage stages coexist and overlap in the canopy, (ii) the distribution of fir trees in nature is irregular and hence distinguishing between different crowns is hard, even for the human eye. Motivated by the latest advances in computer vision and machine learning, this work proposes a two-stage solution: In a first stage, we built a detection strategy that finds the regions of the input UAV image that are more likely to contain a crown, in the second stage, we developed a new convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture that predicts the fir tree damage stage in each candidate region. Our experiments show that the proposed approach shows satisfactory results on UAV Red, Green, Blue (RGB) images of forest areas in the state nature reserve “Stolby” (Krasnoyarsk, Russia).View full-textDiscover moreDownload citationWhat type of file do you want? RIS BibTeX Plain TextWhat do you want to download? Citation only Citation and abstractDownloadInterested in research on UAV?Join ResearchGate to discover and stay up-to-date with the latest research from leading experts in UAV and many other scientific topics.Join for freeorDiscover by subject areaRecruit researchersJoin for freeLoginEmail Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleWelcome back! Please log in.Email · HintTip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate loginPasswordForgot password? Keep me logged inLog inorContinue with LinkedInContinue with GoogleNo account? Sign upAboutNewsCompanyCareersSupportHelp centerFAQBusiness solutionsRecruitingAdvertising© ResearchGate 2019. All rights reserved.ImprintTermsPrivacy