url: https://altigator.com/infrared-thermography-by-drone/






Infrared thermography by drone - AltiGator Drone & UAV Technologies



















































































 









Skip to content




 



Toggle mobile menu



UAVs

Drone custom made solutions
ATLAS
FOX HD
FOX XT
HYDRA
XENA
Applications
Complete solutions

OnyxScan LiDAR
XENA Geo
XENA Observer
XENA Thermo
XENA Rescue
FOX-C8 XT Observer


Features
Technologies


LiDAR
Services

Aerial services provision
Drone pilot training
Drone custom made solutions
Drones updates, maintenance and repair


Software
E-shop
References
About us
Contact
Français
 









Search for:



 
 GPS status: 






Infrared thermography by drone 

The technic called Infrared thermography (IRT) or thermal imaging is based on the Infra Red radiation of an object, a body or a place in relation with its temperature. The images obtained this way are called a thermogram.
Several applications are directly related to the thermography like the buildings thermal diagnosis, the detection of water scarcity in agriculture, the temperature measurements used to monitor production lines and industrial facilities, locating people during search and rescue missions, monitoring areas after fires or other natural or industrial disaster, and many others.
Aerial thermography allows to get a comprehensively view of a wide area in a minimum time and cost.
 
Buildings thermal inspection Thermography is used especially in the construction sector to analyze the thermal losses of buildings. It allows to identify the energy loss (heat loss) of each building through a color chart associated with a  temperature scale generated by this technique.
All data thus collected are then used to generate extremely accurate thermographic maps focused either to a single building, a specific area or even an entire region. Aerial thermographic vision is very relevant because the majority of heat loss from a building concerns in order of importance the roof, walls and windows.
This allows:

controlling energy losses
identifying thermal bridges
detecting defects or lack of insulation
targeting air leakage
identifying points of infiltration of water and the extent thereof on a roof terrace
detecting breaks in hot water pipes
identifying construction defaults
monitoring the drying of a structure
finding faults in the supply lines and the district heating network
identifying electrical problems

These technical details are fundamental to the renovation and improvement of the energy performance of a building.
The advantage of being able to equip our drones with IR thermal cameras, unlike helicopters which offer a very vertical incidence, is their ability to also shoot the vertical walls of the buildings, but also the steep cliffs in search and rescue missions for example .
Without time or space constraint, aerial thermography performed by drones allows to make photographs of high precision and high quality thanks to the stability of the gyro-stabilized gimbals.
Complete RTF solution: XENA Thermo














 
491
Partager :PrintLinkedInSkype 









Request a Quote
Contact us
Conditions of use
Français
 
 

Home
UAVs
UAV LiDAR
Complete solutions
Technologies
About us
 

GPS status
 






				Copyright 2019 © AltiGator 
			




























We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok