url: https://www.fhr.fraunhofer.de/en/businessunits/security/Detection-of-small-drones-with-millimeter-wave-radar.html






Detection of small drones with millimeter wave radar  -  Fraunhofer FHR





















































Search







                        Fraunhofer Institute for High Frequency Physics and Radar Techniques FHR






                    Fraunhofer Institute for High Frequency Physics and Radar Techniques FHR



Fraunhofer Society




Newsletter subscription
Publications
Sitemap
Contact
Deutsch








The Institute

[X]
The Institute


Organization


Advisory Board

Facts and Figures

History of the Institute

Groups and Alliances



Core Competencies


Electromagnetic fields


Modeling of complex electromagnetic scenarios

Propagation of electromagnetic waves in the atmosphere

SARABAND – antenna technology for broadband communication

Future-Oriented Metamaterials Technology



High frequency systems


Interview Prof. Dr. Pohl

300-GHz SAR measurements of streets and facades

High-Resolution 240-GHZ Radar with SiGe Chip



Signal processing and imaging

Cognitive Radar and Classification


A short chirp



Space radar



Technical Equipment


Space observation radar TIRA


A new cover for the space observation radar TIRA



Measuring equipment

Experimental systems and test systems (selection)

Carrier platforms

Circuit board design and production

Chip technology

Ultra-high frequency technology

Rapid prototyping

Precision mechanical workshop



Contact

Research groups at universities


Research Group Aachen

Research Group Integrated Radar Sensors

Working Group »High Frequency Sensors and Radar Techniques« 






Business Units

[X]
Business Units


Defense


DVB-S2-based passive radar imaging

Active protection system with  millimeter wave radar

Airborne multifunction radar of  the next generation 

Passive radar on mobile platforms

Adaptive perception: trailblazer for cognitive radar

Influence of wind turbines on military radar

Knowledge-based moving target indication

Moving target detection with compressed sensing

Serving the Fraunhofer idea



Space


Surveillance of near-earth space with a radar network

Characterization of the small-size space debris population with TIRA 

Cryogenic phased array radars for space surveillance

Space observation with GESTRA

Long-term analysis of the attitude motion of the defunct ENVISAT



Security


Drone detection with  micro-doppler analysis

RAWIS protects rescuers during  emergencies 

Detection of small drones with millimeter wave radar 

3D environment monitoring with MIMO radar camera



Traffic


Antenna development for an  innovative sea rescue system

Demonstration of a solid-state  radar for maritime navigation

Maritime radar with electronically controlled array antenna

Electromagnetic investigation of antennas on platforms

Antenna development for the automotive sector

Cognitive automotive radar 	

Reliable Qualification of Automibile Radars



Production


Width determination of steel strips in the rolling process – radar systems for industrial applications

3D RADAR IMAGES FOR TRANSMISSIVE  INSPECTION OF OBJECTS

Identification with millimeter wave tags 

Integrated radar systems for machine tools



Human and Environment


COLORS: another step towards bird protection in wind farms 

UWB Radar for the detection of  fungal infestation in vines

Needs-Based Warning Lights on Wind Turbines






Careers

[X]
Careers


Working Environment

Doctoral studies at FHR


»Incredibly exciting«

Interview Dr. González



For Students

Tips for Applicants

Vacancies




Press / Media

[X]
Press / Media


Press Releases

Annual Reports and Brochures

Publications


Publications 2017

Publications 2017

Publications 2017

Publications 2016

Publications 2016

Publications 2016

Publications 2015

Publications 2014

Publications 2013

Publications 2012

Publications 2011

Publications 2010

 Publications 2018

 Publications 2018

 Publications 2018






Events

More













Where am I?



Homepage
Business Units
Security
Detection of small drones with millimeter wave radar 





Security












DETECTION OF SMALL DRONES WITH MILLIMETER WAVE RADAR














                       © Fraunhofer FHR
Live tracking of three multicopters with the SSRS system in a measurement range of 50 to 150 m and the measured target parameters.











                       © Fraunhofer FHR
Four-channel MuRPS (Multi Channel Radar for Perimeter Surveillance) with quadcopter in the background. Angle offset is determined using the monopulse technique.











                       © Fraunhofer FHR
Mechanical scanning SSRS (Scanning Surveillance Radar System) with optical camera. The rotating sensor scans with a small aperture angle of 1.8° in azimuth.



The trend of using small drones to execute a wide variety of tasks has increased over the last years. Similar to any other technology, this particular technology creates mixed feelings with regard to how it is ultimately used. The detection of unwanted drones places heavy demands on sensor systems.
Radar systems in the millimeter wave range are ideal for surveillance tasks in the immediate environment, particularly when visibility is poor. In comparison to the optical and IR spectrum, millimeter waves have good penetration characteristics in the presence of fog, smoke or dust. Moreover, radars are active sensors that operate independently of external lighting and the time of day. Their large bandwidths allow high, distance-independent resolution, which not only facilitates the detection and tracking of moving objects but also their classification. Hence, the systems are well suited for the tracking of air drones: the skyward alignment of the sensor and the associated reduction in disturbing clutter also facilitates the detection of smaller unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). These include the multicopters, ranging from bi/tricopters with a very low load capacity and quad/hexacopters to octocopters with a payload of 10 kg and more. The growing popularity of these aircraft, which can also be purchased by private individuals, causes growing problems in air traffic and entails considerable risk potential as utilization for criminal or terrorist purposes cannot be excluded.
From a radar perspective, the small drones can be characterized with regard to their radar backscatter cross section (RCS). The smallest nano UAS have an RCS of less than 0.01 m². These, however, do not pose a great threat. Drones with an RCS from 0.01 m² or 0.1 m² upwards (based on a reference frequency of 10 GHz) – these are known as micro or mini UAS – are more relevant are easier to detect with radar. A high-precision analysis of the Doppler spectrum also allows a distinction to be made with regard to the number of rotors and the rotor type thus facilitating the determination of the drone class.
In test measurements using mini and micro UAS (quad and hexacopter), the MHS department investigated the capabilities of the existing millimeter wave radars (Multi Channel Radar for Perimeter Surveillance) and SSRS (Scanning Surveillance Radar System) in terms of their ability to detect and track small drones. Both sensors use the FMCW principle (Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave) with a medium frequency of 94 GHz and an output power of 100 mW. A radar bandwidth of up to 1 GHz allows a range resolution of 15 cm. The system was designed with a view to achieving the highest possible levels of mobility and flexibility. This applies in particular for the low power requirements; the 12-volt connection in a car is sufficient to operate the system. Figure 2 shows the mechanically constrained four-channel MuRPS system, where the angle offset in azimuth and elevation is determined using the monopulse technique. The front end has dimensions of 200 x 180 x 230 mm3 and weighs approx. 3 kg. The SSRS is a rotating sensor which scans with a small aperture angle of 1. 8° in azimuth. Offset in elevation is not possible at the present time. The front end of the radar, including an optical camera, is shown in Figure 3. The dimensions are 265 x 265 x 100 mm3 and the weight approx. 4.5 kg.
The sensors, which were originally designed as active protection systems or for military camp protection, were only modified slightly for the new measurement task. The evaluation of the data revealed that the systems are ideally suitable for the detection and precise location of several drones of both classes (micro and mini UAS) at close range. In addition, the SSRS system offers live tracking for up to four UAS, as the corresponding software algorithms and the required interfaces already exist. Figure 1 shows an SSRS measurement: the simultaneous live tracking of three multicopters in a measurement range of 50 to 150 m together with the measured target parameters.
The good results reveal that the further development of the sensors for the purpose of detecting small drones is very much worthwhile. Improvement potential does exist, particularly in the area of signal processing, e.g. localization and classification of objects. An increase of the output power (to a realistic value of 1 W) can also significantly extend the coverage area of the radar systems. Finally, elevation resolution for the SSRS system is an essential requirement.














Related Links:



Drone detection with  micro-doppler analysis
RAWIS protects rescuers during  emergencies 
3D environment monitoring with MIMO radar camera










Contact






Contact Press / Media


                Dr. rer. nat. Michael Caris
Team Leader Millimeter Wave Radar | Department Ultra High Frequency Radar and Applications

                Fraunhofer Institute for High Frequency Physics and Radar Techniques FHRFraunhoferstraße 2053343 Wachtberg, Germany

                Phone +49 228 9435-353

                Fax +49 228 9435-608


Send email
michael.caris@fhr.fraunhofer.de















Navigation and Social Media





Share






Print






Quick Links




The Institute

Business Units

Careers

Press / Media

Events





Related Links



Fraunhofer Group for Defense and Security
Fraunhofer Group for Microelectronics
Fraunhofer Vision Alliance 
Fraunhofer Space Alliance


Choose






Fraunhofer Society








Contact

Imprint

Data Protection




© 2019 




Fraunhofer Institute for High Frequency Physics and Radar Techniques FHR
Online in Internet; URL: https://www.fhr.fraunhofer.de/en/businessunits/security/Detection-of-small-drones-with-millimeter-wave-radar.html
Date: 11.6.2019 09:14