url: https://www.idscorporation.com/pf/no-drone/








 

NO-DRONE: detect drone flying near airports | IDS Ingegneria Dei Sistemi






















































































































About Us
IDS Group
IDS Subsidiaries
News & Events
Document Archive
Work with us
 














Primary Menu Air Traffic Management

Aeronautical Information Management

Flight Procedure Design, Validation & Simulation
Airspace Design
Airport Terrain & Obstacle
Electromagnetic Environment
Aeronautical Data Management
Aeronautical Messaging


Our Solutions

AACS
A-BMS
airDome
Airspace Designer
CRONOS
e-TOD Suite
EMACS
FPDAM
FPSAT
GNOME
IAS
ICE
PLX
TBA3D
Ubimex
WePub


Air Traffic Flow Management

ATFM Suite


Customer Support Request


Unmanned Systems

Rotary-wings UAVs

IA-3 Colibrì
Novex
Bit


Fixed-wings UAVs

IA-17
FlyFast 2.0




Avionics
Electromagnetic Engineering

Markets

Aeronautical Electromagnetic Solutions
Naval Electromagnetic Solutions
Space Electromagnetic Solutions


EM Service & Consulting

Electromagnetic Testing
Materials characterization
Electromagnetic Training Service


Electromagnetic Measurement

Static RCS Measurement
Dynamic RCS Measurement


Smart Material

Smart Material Analysis and Design
Smart Material Products


EM Modeling and Simulation

Electromagnetic Environmental Effects E3
Radome Modeling
Link Budget


Our Solutions

Galileo Suite
Ship EDF
VIRAF
Oscar
FARAD
NADIR
RCSMS
EM Academy




Safety & Protection Systems

Public Safety & Security

Gunshot Detection & Location
UAV Detection & Location
Railway Safety
Airport Protection


Military Protection Systems

Hostile Fire Detection & Location
Convoy Protection
Route Clearance
Blast & Ballistic Protection
FOB Protection Systems


Our Solutions

NO-DRONE
HFL-CS
HFL-CM
Minerva
Black Knight
Sirio-LX
Sirio-OD
Defender Ballistic Protection
Defender Blast Protection
Defender Antibacterial Protection
Defender NAVAID Protection




 






  NO-DRONE











Civil Protection Systems  Safety & Protection Systems






A radar based gap-filling surveillance solution for airports, enabling implementation of UTM concepts
The use of UAVs or Drones is becoming more and more common place in the civil domain. With their increasing availability and reduced costs, they are no longer just operated by major defense bodies, but also by other professionals and amateur hobbyists who are often unaware of, or ignore, regulations and basic aviation safety requirements, therefore causing potential risks to aviation.
NO-DRONE is an integrated system aimed for detecting, tracking, identifying and classifying cooperative and noncooperative drones flying in the proximity of airports. It is a radar based system that detects and locates all classes of fixed wing and rotory drones.











NO-DRONE radar provides continuous operation with all-weather day and night full line of sight 360° coverage.
The radar system can also be upgraded with an optional EO/IR turret for visual verification. This is fully integrated into the system to enhance the identification and recognition capabilities of the system.
The system can either be installed in a fixed location to provide permanent or semi-permanent protection or mounted on a trailer or vehicle for rapid temporary deployment.





The safe and smooth deployment in the airport environment is further enhanced by the use of the long established IDS EMC/EMI simulation tools for predictive assessment of possible interference between various radiating and receiving elements around the airport. This models any potential inference with and from any existing NAVAIDS and COM equipment, allowing the operations personnel to locate the system so as not to impact on safety of operations, and at the same time maximize radar coverage.
NO-DRONE integrates the latest IDS simulation software for deployment support in its command console.





NO-DRONE Applications


Airport safety and security systemsurveillance of airport movement areas, runways and approach/departure pathsNO-DRONE Radar for Drone Detection Main Benefits



Control of sensitive and high risk areas





Forensic and investigation support





Increased safety and a new security paradigm for critical asset protection





Unmanned traffic management-ready architecture





Download the NO-DRONE radar-based system
An integrated system for detection of drones flying in no-fly zone.




NO-DRONE Brochure 317.05 KB
Download










NO-DRONE key features





Full line of sight 360° coverage of the aerodrome
Multi-target radar tracking
Target recognition, identification and classification
Can be fully integrated with complimentary technology (RF, Optical, etc.)
Surveillance of airport movement areas, runways and approach/departure paths
Cooperative setup with the airport environment (EMI/ EMC analysis)
User-defined selection of radar sector blanking areas
Uses a standard data format such as Asterix
Interoperability with ATC Systems



Related News
        13 – 14 June: IDS at the KIMST Conference     10/06/2019             IDS: SESAR Solution 03a-09 Validation Exercise     20/05/2019             Level Crossing Safety: IDS attends the SafeRail Congress     09/05/2019     


contact us













Your Name:
 
Your Surname:
 
Your Company:
 
Phone (inc. dialing code):
 
Your Email:
 
Preferred Method of Contact:
EmailPhone
Choose your Area of Interest:
GeneralATMUnmanned SystemsAvionicsElectromagnetic EngineeringSafety & Protection Systems 
 Subject:
 
 Your Message:

300
 Accept Terms & Conditions


























Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
 

©2019 IDS Ingegneria Dei Sistemi S.p.A.
Via E. Calabresi, 24 - Loc. Montacchiello
56121 Pisa - Italy
C.F. 00672210507 – P. IVA IT 00672210507 










































We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok