url: https://www.amsterdamdroneweek.com/events/integrated-infrastructure











EVENTS | Integrated infrastructure| Amsterdam Drone Week



























































Exhibiting


Press


Exhibitors portal


Your trip


Contact







Menu Bar


















                                        About
                                    


About ADW 


Valuable Connections


Gallery





                                        Event
                                    


Want to host an event?


Apply to speak 





                                        Partners
                                    


Apply to partner


Media partners




Board of Recommendation



                                        News
                                    


Industry news


Whitepaper | Airbus


Whitepaper | Bell


Whitepaper | IDS


Whitepaper | KPN













Search


















Towards an integrated infrastructure and traffic control system

Home
Events
Integrated infrastructure
























Towards an integrated infrastructure and traffic control system
Organised by: Amsterdam Drone Week


About
A European initiative called U-space (in the US called UTM: Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management), seeks to create a digital infrastructure that allows small drones to safely operate beyond line-of-sight in dedicated and approved airspace. The development of U-space is key when it comes to opening up the commercial market for drone services.

How will governments begin merging traffic management applications with software that can also track and manage drones? And how does detect and avoid technology make the integration of manned and unmanned airplanes possible? This and more will be discussed at the Amsterdam Drone Week Forum 'Towards an integrated infrastructure and traffic control system'
See the full programme here below. Please note the programme is still subject to change.




When and Where?
Date & time  
28 November 2018
13.30 - 17.00 hrs
Location Future forum, Hall 12 RAI Amsterdam Amsterdam Drone Week

Registration fee Free 

Register for Amsterdam Drone Week here »




































About
    Amsterdam Drone Week is the first official European platform for users, manufacturers, services and regulators, that unites the brightest and most creative minds of the UAS Industry. It is a co-created event which showcases the latest technology and helps unlock the potential of drones and discovery of new applications. For the duration of one week, this umbrella event connects the entire UAS value chain through a diversity of events around drone regulations, new technology and future solutions.




Newsletter


Receive the Amsterdam Drone Week monthly newsletter, subscribe and stay up to date!
Subscribe »





#ADW19

#ADW19




Contact
RAI Amsterdam
Amsterdam Drone Week
P.O. Box 77777
1070 MS Amsterdam
Europaplein
1078 GZ Amsterdam
The Netherlands
amsterdamdroneweek@rai.nl


 
 




Stay connected

































                            2019 © Amsterdam RAI. All rights reserved
                            
     Visitor conditions
          | 
     Disclaimer
          | 
     Privacy statement











This site uses cookies to store information on your computer. By visiting the website you give consent to place cookies. View our cookie policy for further details on how to block cookies.
Close »