url: https://www.g4s.com/media-centre/news/2018/08/30/the-future-of-drones-in-security








The future of drones in security | G4S - News | G4S Corporate website

































        Please enable javascript
        in your browser in order to view our share latest prices online
    






menu












                Who we are
            


IN THIS SECTION



                Strategic Priorities
            



                Where we Operate
            



                Our Values
            



                Our People
            





                Our Employees
            



                Our Executive Committee
            



                Our Group Board
            







                Our History
            



                Memberships and industry expertise
            







                What we do
            


IN THIS SECTION



                Services
            





                Care and Justice
            



                Cash Solutions
            



                Consulting Services
            



                Security solutions
            











                Investors
            


IN THIS SECTION



                Integrated Report 2018
            





                Annual Reports Archive
            







                2018 FY Results Centre
            



                Corporate Governance
            





                Audit Committee
            



                CSR Committee
            



                Governance - Chairmans Letter
            



                Nomination Committee
            



                Remuneration Committee
            



                Risk Committee
            







                News and Presentations
            





                Financial Presentations
            



                Regulatory Announcements
            







                Share Price Tools
            





                Dividend
            



                Interactive Dividend Calculator
            



                Interactive Share Calculator
            



                Interactive Share Calculator CSE
            



                Interactive Share Price Chart
            



                Share Details CSE
            



                Share Details LSE
            



                Total Shareholder Return Chart
            







                Shareholder Centre
            





                Analyst Coverage
            



                Debt Investors
            



                Electronic Communications
            



                Events
            



                FAQs
            



                Financial Calendar
            



                Financial Statements
            



                Investment Case
            



                Investor Relations Contacts
            



                IR Policy
            



                KPIs
            



                Major Shareholdings
            



                Protect Yourself From Fraud
            











                Careers
            



                Media Centre
            


IN THIS SECTION



                News
            



                Our Views
            



                Media LIbrary
            







                Social Responsibility
            


IN THIS SECTION



                CSR Case studies
            



                CSR Index
            



                Our CSR Commitment
            





                Engaging with our stakeholders
            



                Our material issues
            



                Reporting Frameworks
            







                Safeguarding our integrity
            





                Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption
            



                Human rights
            



                Slavery and Human Trafficking
            



                Tax Strategy
            



                Whistleblowing
            







                Securing our People
            





                Diversity and inclusion
            



                Employee engagement
            



                Pay and Reward
            



                Employee Retention
            



                Ethical employment and labour relations
            



                Health and safety
            



                HR Core Standards
            



                Screening Standards
            



                 Learning and Development
            







                Securing our Environment
            





                Carbon Footprint
            



                Energy reduction
            







                Securing our Communities
            





                Societal Impact
            



                Employee welfare
            



                Match It
            







                CSR Reports
            









        G4S Country Sites
    




                    G4S GLOBAL SITES
                


G4S Plc


Risk Management


AMAG Technology


G4S International Logistics


G4S Risk Consulting






Asia Pacific





                                                    Australia and New Zealand
                                                





                                                    Bangladesh
                                                





                                                    China
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    Guam
                                                





                                                    Hong Kong
                                                





                                                    India
                                                





                                                    Indonesia
                                                


                                                            Indonesian
                                                        




                                                    Japan-日本
                                                







                                                    Macau
                                                





                                                    Malaysia
                                                





                                                    Nepal
                                                





                                                    Papua New Guinea
                                                





                                                    Philippines
                                                





                                                    Singapore
                                                





                                                    Taiwan
                                                


                                                            Chinese (Traditional)
                                                        




                                                    Thailand
                                                








Latin America





                                                    Argentina
                                                





                                                    Barbados
                                                





                                                    Brasil
                                                





                                                    Chile
                                                





                                                    Colombia 
                                                





                                                    Costa Rica
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    DominicanRepublic
                                                





                                                    ECUADOR
                                                





                                                    El Salvador
                                                







                                                    Guatemala
                                                





                                                    Mexico
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    Nicaragua
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    Paraguay
                                                





                                                    Perú
                                                





                                                    Puerto Rico
                                                





                                                    Trinidad and Tobago
                                                





                                                    Uruguay
                                                





                                                    Venezuela
                                                








Europe





                                                    Austria
                                                





                                                    Belgium
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        




                                                    Cyprus
                                                





                                                    CzechRepublic
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    Denmark
                                                





                                                    Estonia
                                                





                                                    France
                                                





                                                    Greece
                                                





                                                    Guernsey
                                                





                                                    Hungary
                                                





                                                    Ireland 
                                                





                                                    Isle of Man
                                                





                                                    Israel
                                                







                                                    Jersey
                                                





                                                    Latvia
                                                





                                                    Lithuania
                                                





                                                    Luxembourg
                                                





                                                    Malta
                                                





                                                    Netherlands
                                                





                                                    Romania
                                                





                                                    Serbia
                                                


                                                            English
                                                        




                                                    Slovakia 
                                                





                                                    Slovenia
                                                





                                                    Turkey
                                                





                                                    Ukraine
                                                


                                                            Ukrainian
                                                        




                                                    United Kingdom
                                                








Africa





                                                    Angola
                                                





                                                    Botswana
                                                





                                                    Cameroon
                                                





                                                    Democratic Republic of Congo
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        




                                                    Gabon
                                                





                                                    Gambia
                                                





                                                    Ghana
                                                





                                                    Guinea
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        




                                                    Ivory Coast
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        




                                                    Kenya
                                                





                                                    Lesotho
                                                





                                                    Madagascar
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        






                                                    Malawi
                                                





                                                    Mali
                                                





                                                    Mauritania
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        




                                                    Morocco
                                                





                                                    Mozambique
                                                


                                                            Portuguese
                                                        




                                                    Namibia
                                                





                                                    Nigeria
                                                





                                                    Sierra Leone
                                                





                                                    South Africa
                                                





                                                    Tanzania
                                                





                                                    Uganda
                                                





                                                    Zambia
                                                








Middle East





                                                    Bahrain
                                                





                                                    Egypt
                                                





                                                    Jordan
                                                





                                                    Kuwait
                                                





                                                    Lebanon
                                                







                                                    Oman
                                                





                                                    Qatar
                                                





                                                    Saudi Arabia
                                                


                                                            Arabic
                                                        




                                                    United Arab Emirates
                                                





                                                    Yemen
                                                








North America





                                                    Canada
                                                


                                                            French
                                                        






                                                    USA
                                                





















Corporate


Media Centre


News


THE FUTURE OF DRONES IN SECURITY                    






        The future of drones in security
    




30 Aug 2018 14:30        







Drones and drone software are developing rapidly, and while the new technology creates a wealth of opportunities, it also brings a number of new risks. 




















G4S has high expectations for the future of drone technology and the business related opportunities that the technology brings.

In this context, the G4S Academy in Denmark has developed a guide, shared below, that can contribute to ensuring the technology is implemented in the best possible way, or in relevant circumstances, prevented entirely. 

Drone technology
Many different types and sizes of drones exist, from fixed wing drones to single or multi rotor versions, and hybrids of these types too. Each drone has individual benefits, and when choosing a drone, it is important to consider its purpose.

For instance, a drone with eight arms/rotors (Octocopter) has a better payload capacity than a comparable drone with four arms/rotors (Quadcopter). If you want several cameras on one drone, you have to make sure that it can carry the weight and at the same time also maintain its stability when flying. Furthermore, if the drone is required to fly long distances, then you need larger batteries, which likewise will have an impact on the weight and the stability of the drone. Therefore, it is important to clarify your needs before investing in a drone.

A technology in development
The technology used for all drones is developing rapidly.  The latest versions are packed with everything from the highest resolution cameras with live streaming to ‘sense & avoid’ technologies, ensuring that a drone does not fly into various objects along its route.

A “standard” drone solution roughly consists of motor, propeller/wings, GPS, altimeter, accelerometer, gyroscope, compass, data link (for communication), battery or batteries and remote control.

There is redundancy in all parts of the most recent drones -- from GPS to batteries. Technology that previously was earmarked for the military is now easily accessible to everyone, at an ever-decreasing price.

Drone software and application development are continuing, and today it is possible to manage a drone autonomously and automatically through a pre-programmed route, where the drone itself avoids any obstacles along the way.

When choosing a drone solution, it can be advantageous to choose a solution including software that makes it possible to establish a GEOfence in the flight zone of the drone, so it is restricted to only fly in the permitted area. 

Furthermore, it is important that the data collected from the drone and camera are stored in a data environment that is General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliant in regards to the rules for storing personal data and recordings. It is also essential to have a valid data processor agreement with your software provider.


Regulation and legal requirements
The rapid developments within drone technology are setting high demands for the legislation, aiming to ensure that new drones and systems can be used. Therefore, there continues to be much activity in the legislative field in regards to drones in Europe.
Today,regulations vary from country to country, but ”The European Aviation Safety Agency” (also called EASA) is working on common regulations within the EU and can be found on EASA’s website.
We are expecting that the development of the drone technology will be reflected in the regulations in the near future. Correspondingly, this will mean that we will experience new opportunities for the usage of drones.


Drones and Usage
When you are using drones as a work related tool, different factors will have an impact. The weather, in particular, has a big influence on whether or not your drone can be used. 

Fog and heavy rain can be an issue due to the pilot’s limited visibility. The same issue applies to darkness. In this matter, however, there are several solutions, which would make the flight possible -- including thermal or infrared cameras and a light on the drone. Night flying requires a special permit and exam.

A drone is also sensitive to wind speed, which varies depending on the location of the drone. That means that the wind speed close to the ground is not necessarily the same as the wind speed 50 metres above the ground, and similarly the wind speed can change further in 100 metres altitude. The wind conditions may also change when flying close to buildings due to turbulence or wind tunnels. This is, amongst others, the reason why a drone pilot has to be prepared to disrupt a flight at any time, if the conditions at the location change in an undesired direction.






Using drones in G4S
G4S is currently working on a number of solutions where drones are used, such as the patrolling and supervision of harbour areas and construction sites, or the supervision and patrolling of large perimeters.  G4S also uses drones for inspection tasks tailored to customers' needs and logistical tasks, such as loading and localisation of goods, trailers and containers for optimisation of flow and outdoor storage.  Other examples include a security officer / drone security setup for inspections and response to security breaches, varied facility management tasks (roofs, drains, tall chimneys, cables, etc.), alarm patrol response (security officer patrol) and search of missing persons.

The use of drones can create both great security and business value.  At the same time, drones can be used as part of a company's value chain, supporting the company's KPIs in quality, documentation, logistics and inspection.

If the legislative regulations allow, it is possible to supplement video surveillance with a camera-equipped drone. The drone has the capacity to perform flights according to pre-programmed time schedules, but it can also be managed remotely from a surveillance centre, if for instance, you would like a picture of an incident happening in the area at the exact time.



Drones should always be considered as an integral part of the overall total security management, and not used as a stand-alone security solution. 







A wired drone

Another option is a wired drone. This drone is, at all times, provided with power through a cable. All controlling and picture signals are transferred through this cable. The drone has a limited reach, but it is very well suited as a substitute for a moveable camera mounted on a mast.

If the drone is located on the roof of a building, it will take off vertically from the rooftop, up to a reasonable altitude, where it will take pictures of the surrounding area. This can be done automatically according to a predefined time schedule or manually. When the drone is not in the air and is active, it will be hidden from its surroundings and from any nearby troublemakers. 

Surveillance cannot solely depend on drones due to the fact that bad weather conditions can inhibit the drones from flying.  
Drones should always be considered as an integral part of the overall total security management, and not used as a stand-alone security solution.







Anti-drone technology
When you open the door to new possibilities, you often also open the door for new risks. This is also the case when talking about drones - and the development and application of anti-drone technology is therefore essential in dealing with drones.

Anti-drone technologies are primarily focused on the protection of prisons, fence and perimeter surveillance, and protection of public buildings and embassies.

The market is full of actions, aiming to secure against unwanted drones - everything from net guns to jamming components. The challenge in this context is two-fold.  Firstly, the regulations in some countries are not allowing jamming of signals in any way. The reason for this is that the law is aiming to protect all the wireless components surrounding us in our everyday lives. Society considers this of higher value than the fight against unwanted drones.  Secondly, net guns are very limited in their range, and therefore, they are not very efficient when it comes to larger distances.  


Warning systems


Warning systems is the best suggestion for protection against unwelcome drones. Most warning systems are based on radio frequency (2,4GHZ and 5,8GHZ). The systems listen for drone controlling signals (from remote control to drone) and video signals (from drone to remote control). The systems are often combined with video cameras that are able to detect and verify drones.

Warning systems are not a stand-alone solution. This means that the systems are not capable of keeping drones out of a given area, but able to inform about drones entering the area. For this method to have any real effect, there must also be some kind of response associated with the alert. For instance, this could be a security officer, who is able to follow the drone and to intervene at the right time.

Relevant functions in anti-drone solutions include real-time drone discovery and alarm, active response and protection and surveillance, recordings and event reports.


Conclusion
There is no doubt, that the usage of drones for various security tasks will develop in the coming years, and at G4S we work closely with drones and drone prevention technologies and solutions. 

The legislation is falling behind the technology, and is therefore causing restrictions on the full potential of drones, but here too we are starting to see changes.  

Our recommendation is to always use educated drone pilots in all drone related contexts, ensuring that the technology is applied correctly and according to all requirements, laws and regulations.








                About G4S
            

G4S is the leading global, integrated security company, specialising in the provision of security services and solutions to customers. Our mission is to create material, sustainable value for our customers and shareholders by being the supply partner of choice in all our markets.  G4S is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and has a secondary stock exchange listing in Copenhagen. G4S is active in around 90 countries and has around 546,000 employees. For more information on G4S, visit www.g4s.com.











OTHER STORIES YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN


                        Read more on the future of security
                    



Security and drones




G4S Academy









.

.













                latest results
            








            Further to the preliminary announcement of its results for the year ended 31 December 2018 made on 12 March 2019, G4S plc, the global, integrated security solutions provider, announces that it has published its Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 for the same period.
        


Click here



                DOWNLOADS
            



2018 Full Year results announcement





G4S Integrated Report 2018





Human Rights Policy







                Popular Pages
            



                            2018 Full Year Results Centre
                            




                            Integrated Report 2018
                            




                            Financial Statements
                            




                            Share Price Tools
                            




                            Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
                            






                contacts
            



G4S plc
5th Floor, Southside
105 Victoria Street
London SW1E 6QT
United Kingdom

T: +44 (0)208 770 7000



More Contact Details



FOLLOW G4S PLC


Facebook


LinkedIn


Twitter







        useful links
    


G4S Privacy Statement


Accessibility


Cookies Policy


disclaimer


Contact Us




    © G4S plc 2019. All Rights Reserved.




I'm fine with this
Tell me more



Close


                This website uses cookies to improve your experience. To understand what cookies we use and why, please visit our Cookies Page.
            




^