url: https://fstoppers.com/aerial/french-secret-service-jammed-and-crashed-drone-flying-near-summer-residence-276746










































The French Secret Service Jammed and Crashed a Drone Flying Near the Summer Residence of President Macron | Fstoppers





































 






Articles
Tutorials
Community
Groups
Contests






Log In Sign Up









 






 
 




RSS


Facebook


Twitter


You Tube


Instagram



 













 




HomeAerial  The French Secret Service Jammed and Crashed a Drone Flying Near the Summer Residence of President Macron


 










  
by Oliver Kmia
August 9, 2018
 0 Comments


 

 
0 Comments
















 

Terrorist attempt, paparazzi, intrusive droner, or unaware tourist? Whoever conducted a drone flight near the summer residence of French President Macron lost their drone, as the secret service managed to jam the aircraft before it crashed into the sea.
The Agence France-Presse reported on August 6 that an unknown type of drone flew over the Fort de Brégançon, the official summer retreat of French presidents since the 60s, located on the French Riviera, 20 miles west of Saint-Tropez. President Emmanuel Macron and his wife are currently on vacation in the Fort, but the presence of the president at the time of the incident has not been confirmed. The area is officially marked as a no-fly zone by the French authority (zone R60 and R64A1), but surprisingly, a quick look at the no-fly zone map of DJI reveals that the area is not restricted by geofencing (the model of drone is still unknown at this point). Ironically, the no-fly zones were first introduced by DJI in 2015 after an inebriated intelligence employee crashed his DJI Phantom on the lawn of the White House.
The Fort de Brégançon seen from Google Maps

The well-informed defense blog Opex360 explained that the drone has been jammed and crashed at sea. The general attorney of the nearby city of Toulon opened an investigation and military divers are actively searching the area where the drone crashed. The local sea depth of 100 feet should facilitate the searches.
Most likely, the jamming was done by the French equivalent of the secret service (GSPR) in charge of the president’s security. They probably used a gun jammer, which is nothing more than a high-powered radio transmitter fitted with multi-band radio antennas that was then directed on the drone to saturate radio reception capabilities. Unable to received control input from the pilot or GPS signal to engage a return to home procedure, the blinded drone probably initiated a descent on spot and crashed at sea, as the Fort de Brégançon is surrounded by water.
A terrorist motive behind this drone flight is unlikely, but France is on high security alert after several cases of presumed drone flights over nuclear power plants and the presidential palace in Paris a few years ago. The country has been the victim of several terrorist attacks recently, such as the Nice truck attack that killed 86 persons in 2016. Moreover, last week, Venezuelan President Maduro claimed he was the victim of an assassination attempt carried out by two DJI M600 drones loaded with explosives. Due to the nature of the regime, the details of this attack are unclear and contradictory. Finally, a few days ago, British Prime Minister Theresa May was received for a meeting by the French president in his summer residence.
Most likely, this flight is the result of an ignorant tourist or a stupid drone pilot. In any case, he or she just became the most wanted drone pilot in France.
Lead picture of President Macron by Arno Mikkor, used under Creative Commons.
 
Posted In: AerialDroneNewsvia: Opex360, AFP 




  

Follow 

Oliver Kmia is specialized in time-lapse, hyperlapse, and aerial videography. He also works with several drone manufacturers as a marketing and technical consultant. He is the lead brand ambassador of Hello Kitty camera, his favorite piece of equipment. Most people think Oliver is an idiot and they are probably right.


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube


Vimeo

 

More from Oliver Kmia


 
Will Elon Musk Starlink Satellites Ruin Astrophotography? 

Leaked Specification of the Panasonic S1H: A Full Frame GH5? 

A Music Video Highlights the Disturbing Reality of the Porn Industry [NSFW] 
 
 

Related Articles






Aerial
Was There a Drone at Gatwick Airport? British Police Express Doubt, Investigation Continues
December 24, 2018


 






Photojournalistic
Photo of German Chancellor Angela Merkel With President Trump at G7 Summit Goes Viral
June 10, 2018


 






Legal
French President Emmanuel Macron Seeking Legal Action Against Photographer
August 18, 2017


 


  


Log in or register to post comments 


  

 











 




Follow @Fstoppers 

 

Trending Articles



 

Three Things I Appreciate About Canon Cameras 


Five Signs You're Becoming a Better Photographer 


Lifetime Review of the Canon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Lens 


Mac Pro 2019: Read This Before You Buy It 


Is Photography the Lowest Paid, Least Respected Creative Art Form? 


Check Out This Little-Known Sony Mirrorless Hack 
 
 

 







 



 
 





Featured Photos & Videos

 

 












 









Fstoppers

Articles
Tutorials
Community
Contests
New Photos



Community

Groups
Photo of the Day
Popular Photos
Popular Videos
Editor's Picks
Photographer of the Month



Categories

Fstoppers Originals
Gear Reviews
Commercial
Videography


Strobe light


Opinion
DIY
Sports
Wedding
Portraits


BTS
Composite

Film Photography
Fashion
More...



About

About Fstoppers
Meet the Writers
Contact Us
Advertise
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
FAQs





RSS


Facebook


Twitter


You Tube


Instagram


©2019 Fstoppers

 


 