url: https://bgr.com/2015/10/16/drone-defender-rifle-radio-wave-gun/







































New rifle shoots drones out of the sky without firing a single bullet – BGR

























 












































 











































							Click to Skip Ad
					
Closing in...





























  















Tech
Entertainment
Deals
Business
Science
Lifestyle
About







ALERT: Content in our deals section may not be visible when ad-blocking is enabled. Please consider adding us to your whitelist.


























 




New rifle shoots drones out of the sky without firing a single bullet







Zach Epstein
@zacharye

October 16th, 2015 at 9:20 AM


 Share
 Tweet









One would need to be quite the marksman to shoot a drone out of the sky with a conventional rifle. Firing a bullet with a diameter of only about 7mm and hitting an airborne drone from several hundred feet away is obviously no easy task. But a new rifle unveiled earlier this week is a game changer for individuals and organizations looking to protect their privacy and safety by warding off snooping drones, and it doesn’t even fire a single bullet.
MUST SEE: Adobe confirms major Flash vulnerability, and the only way to protect yourself is to uninstall Flash
Ohio-based nonprofit research and development firm Battelle this week unveiled a device it calls the DroneDefender, which it says is “the first portable, accurate, rapid-to-use counter-weapon to stop suspicious or hostile drones in flight, providing critical security protection at home and abroad.” While it’s not a weapon in the conventional sense, it represents a huge step in the fight against unwanted drone activity.
 






There’s a fight against unwanted drone activity?
While the term “drone” has recently had its scope extended to include a wide range of simple radio controlled quadcopter aimed at recreational use, not all drones are fun little gadgets. Drones are used regularly as invasive tools intended to spy on individuals or even top-secret business operations. Beyond that, military, governments and law enforcement are targeted by spy drones on reconnaissance missions.
The DroneDefender may be our first look at the perfect anti-drone technology. The device, which looks like a modern rifle with an antenna mechanism attached to the front — because that’s basically what it is — uses targeted radio waves to force drones out of the sky. The nondestructive tech “utilizes a non-kinetic solution to defend airspace up to 400m against UAS, such as quadcopters and hexacopters, without compromising safety or risking collateral damage.”
Regulations in many regions obviously prevent people from firing conventional weapons at drones as a means of defense, so the DroneDefender rifle could be an ideal workaround. The device also has a range of more than 1,300 feet, and that may even improve in future versions.
“This is just the kind of tool we need to safely counter a drone threat,” said Battelle’s lead researcher Dan Stamm. “The DroneDefender can help protect us from those who may wish to do us harm.”
 






“It can help us in numerous settings, from the White House lawn to bases and embassies overseas; from prisons and schools to historic sites,” technical director Alex Morrow added. “It easily and reliably neutralizes the threat.”
The video embedded below shows a demo of the DroneDefender in action. While the demo is simulated due to federal regulations in the U.S., Battelle notes that it has been successfully tested in the field numerous times.
 
Image Source: Battelle

											Tags: drones 





 











Trending



1

Tech
The newest Pixel 4 leak shows Google was wrong about the Pixel… again



2

Tech
Waze just inherited one of the best features of Google Maps



3

Tech
Pixel 4 renders just leaked, and it looks like an iPhone 11 copycat



4

Science
Sleeping with the TV on is linked to weight gain, study says



5

Tech
This leaked Pixel 4 XL video better be fake

















BGR Top Deals



1

Just Restocked
Amazon sale shaves $200 off one of Bose’s best sound bars



2

Best Deal We've Found
Apple’s iPad is back down to $249 and you’re crazy if you don’t get one



3

Back By Popular Demand!
These smart LED bulbs are just as good as $50 Philips Hue bulbs, and they’re down to $13



4

Highlighted Deal
Today’s top deals: $13 LED smart bulbs, $25 true wireless earbuds, $10 Anker wireless charger, $249 iPad, more



5

Going Fast!
10 deals you don’t want to miss on Sunday: PlayStation Plus codes, Fire TV Stick, SanDisk 200GB microSD, more
























Picked For You







Sleeping with the TV on is linked to weight gain, study says

By Mike Wehner 12 hours ago 







The wireless home security camera with crazy 2-year battery life just dropped to its lowest price ever

By Maren Estrada 1 day ago 







Waze just inherited one of the best features of Google Maps

By Chris Smith 16 hours ago 













								Advertise							

								About							

								Contact							































Copyright 2019 BGR Media, LLC
PMC EntertainmentPowered by WordPress.com VIP | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Rights | Ad Choices | Privacy Preferences | Terms Of Use




























































 