url: https://www.uavnavigation.com/products/gcs/gcs-software












GCS Software | UAV Navigation

























Skip to main content









 







Home
ProductsAutopilotsVECTOR
VECTOR SDK

AHRS-IMUPOLAR

GCSGCS Hardware
GCS Software

Accessories

ServicesOnline Support
Training Courses
Integration Process
Adaptation Process
On-site Support
Payload Integration

SolutionsFlight Control for Fixed Wing UAVs
Flight Control for Helicopters
Flight Control for Target Drones

CompanyAbout
News and Events
Blog
Partners
Client Cases
Quality Policy
Mission and Values
Careers
Contact us

SUPPORT



 















You are hereHome » Products » GCS

GCS Software















 
 




				 

					Visionair

Quotation Request



 
 



 

 
 










		Mission planning and execution application
Fully featured, customizable interface with an emphasis on the mission. Intuitive and reliable.




		All-in-one software
The same software is used to configure and operate the autopilot.




		Real-time graphing
Visionair includes real-time graphs to visualize telemetry from the autopilot.

 








		Dynamic Runway and Follow-me
The system can be configured so that a Flight Plan automatically follows a moving Ground Control Station (i.e. onboard ship).




		Customizable Interface
Customize the look and feel of Visionair to suit your platform and operating procedures.




		Multi-UAV Operation Support
Carry out operations with more than one autopilot from a single Ground Control Station.

 


 
 











  Visionair


				 

				Visionair is UAV Navigation's (UAVN) standard Ground Control Station (GCS) software for planning and executing UAV missions. It is compatible with all UAVN autopilots (AP).

				 

Basic Features:


Mission-oriented interface.

Fully featured UAV mission planning and execution application, with GUI.

Platform: PC/laptop (with keyboard + mouse).

Suitable for fixed-wing, helicopter or multi-rotor UAVs and targets.

Main Flight Modes: Auto, Manual, Fly-To, Hold (Hover), Safe (Return To Base).

Fully Auto Take-Off.

Fully Auto Landing.

Camera Control Modes: Air, Ground, Geo, Pilot View, Stow, Rate (with integrated video display).

Waypoints: 100 max.

Range: Unlimited.

Altitude: Unlimited.

Full DEM support.

Link Quality panel.

Target Editor.

Fly/No-fly Zones.

Rulers.

Full range of configurable alarms.

Compatible with all kinds of digital mapping.

					 

Advanced Functions as Standard:

Visionair Charts

								Graphically represent every parameter sent/received via the telemetry stream with an intuitive interface. Real-time operation, meaning that the system can be analysed on the fly.

DGPS

								The standard GPS receiver in APs and GCS gives an accuracy of approx 3-5m, which can be enhanced by using DGPS corrections.

GPS RTK

								Visionair is compatible with RTK systems (e.g. Trimble BD920) to give navigation accuracy down to a couple of centimeters.

Transponder Control

								Visionair features a panel for configuration and control of an onboard transponder (currently supported: Sagetech and Microair)

Multi-UAV Operations

								Multi-UAV allows control of up to 16 UAVs at any one time from a single GCS.

TCP/UDP Server-Client Connectivity

								Connect two or more GCS, each running Visionair, to control a single UAV flight. Useful if the Visionair display needs to be mirrored remotely, and also if control must be passed from one GCS to another and back again as required.

NMEA GPS

								Output Visionair can output the GPS track of a platform's position in NMEA format (useful if the mission must be monitored by another party, e.g. range control can monitor the flight of a target drone).

Auto Grid Flight Plan Generation

								Visionair automatically generates the most efficient flight plan to cover a designated area. The user simply draws a polygon around the perimeter of the area, and then Visionair automatically generates the waypoints to cover the entire area. This is useful for Search & Rescue missions and for crop-spraying, amongst other tasks.

Sea-Skimming

								For high performance target drones, UAVN has developed the capability to maintain the aircraft's altitude down to just 7m above the water's surface at high speed (200kts+), using an advanced radar altimeter.

					 

Under Development:


Formation Flight

									This capability will allow Visionair to control up to three UAVs at once as if they were one single UAV. This is particularly useful for target drone operations where the operator wants to simulate the release of anti-ship missiles from a low-flying (sea-skimming) threat; the formation of targets can be flown towards the attack area and then one of the targets can be separated to simulated missile release.



				 



 


 
 













UAV NavigationCutting-edge Autopilots

	 

	 

 Avda Pirineos 7, B11, 28703

	San Sebastián de los Reyes, Spain

 +34 91 657 2723

 Office hours:

	09:00 - 18:00 (GMT+2)

Contact us

 


 






	UAV Navigation develops and manufactures cutting-edge autopilots and flight control solutions for the UAV industry.

  

 


 





UAV Navigation is an ISO-9001 certified company for the design and assembly of avionics for manned and unmanned aerial vehicles, with a worldwide partner network. Please see our Quality Policy.
 



 




Subscribe to our Newsletter






* indicates required

Email Address *  

I am interested in... 

News and Events

Blog



					 

					 








 
 
 

 
 









	Copyright © UAV Navigation. All rights reserved.

General Terms & Conditions

Privacy Policy & Website Conditions


 
 

 




 