https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/da9d/f7cb0b0e0c4bc22cde7532986ed61ee2f275.pdf
Unmanned Systems Sentinel Summary  Please keep in mind that in most instances the below summaries are excerpts from the original article. The full articles can be viewed at the accompanying hyper-links. The inclusion of these links does not represent an endorsement of the organization, service, or product. All opinions expressed are those of the respective author or authors and do not represent the official policy or positions of the Naval Postgraduate School, the United States Navy, or any other government entity. Immediately below are this edition’s highlights with bookmarks to the respective articles: NAVY/USMC: Navy’s Long-Endurance Underwater Drone to Begin Deep-Ocean Navigation NRL-Developed Micro-UAV Named POPULAR SCIENCE 'Best of What's New' Unmanned underwater vehicles will help with harbor and ship's force protection Northrop Tests Tail-sitter VTOL for DARPA’s Tern UAV PSU Helps the Navy Learn 'The Art Of The Possible' ARMY: New autonomous robot extends communication beyond line-of-sight Squad X Core Technologies Takes First Steps toward Improving Capabilities USAF: Air Force offers $125K bonuses to keep RPA pilots Enlisted Drone Pilots Coming Global Hawk readies for new payload tests NATO Global Hawk concludes test flight Air Force to Allow Enlisted Servicemen to Pilot Drones NATIONAL AIR SPACE: New comprehensive report on the risks drones pose to aircraft (‘Drone Sightings and Close Encounters: An Analysis’ is also available) FAA Issues Fact Sheet on State and Local UAS Laws AMA to FAA on Model Registration: Hold Your Horses! FAA Announces Small UAS Registration Rule Stanford Software Predicts and Prevents Collisions PUBLIC SAFETY: National Science Foundation and Others Award $37M in Co-Robot Funding Unmanned Aerial Systems for Forest Operations Business Joins Academia for Large-Scale Face-Search to Fight Crime, Terrorism Breakthroughs, collaboration set flight plan for UAS NASA's Virtual Leash for Drones Prevents Runaway Robots Report: Homeland Security Agencies Wary of Adopting Drone Technology  Aerodrome Announces World’s First Commercial Droneport and Teaching Facility Connecticut DOT to test drone for inspections under bridges SENSORS/APPLICATIONS: Eighteen rotors, pilot optional Drone Borrows Bird's Technique for Low Power Flight UAS used to study climate change impacts on Andes glaciers The FLYBi Drone with VR Goggles Gives You a Bird's Eye View of the World Using Drones as a Solar PV Operations and Maintenance Tool Precise Localization of a UAV using visual odometry Twitter Patent for Drone VM-aware storage speeds drone training New drone flight training school FLYPRO Launches First Smart Watch Drone with Auto Follow and Obstacle Avoidance Features COUNTER UAS: Catch a drone for cash DHS: Drug Traffickers Are Spoofing Border Drones Drone-jamming equipment to be deployed at public events INTERNATIONAL: Russian defense minister: Syria operation shows drones are irreplaceable COMMENTARY: United Nations Seeks to Head off Rise of Killer Robots Drone regulations should be considered for use now and in the future ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- NAVY/USMC: Navy’s Long-Endurance Underwater Drone to Begin Deep-Ocean Navigation The Office of Naval Research’s long-endurance unmanned underwater vehicle will soon begin deep-ocean navigation testing, according to the head of the office. The large-displacement unmanned undersea vehicle, also known as the LDUUV, will embark on deep-ocean navigation testing – which is measured as traversing 900 to 1,100 nautical miles autonomously – as early as this spring, said Rear Adm. Mathias Winter, chief of ONR. The system has been in the works for years. It is being designed as an underwater vehicle that can travel across oceans for long periods of time without refueling. Unmanned underwater vehicle development is a budding area of research, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus recently said. Finding ways to increase the endurance of such systems is of particular concern, he noted. “Our UUVs need to be able to stay out for months at a time allowing them to observe large areas for a long period [of time] without interruption and without degradation,” he said. ONR wants the system to be able to operate underwater for decades, he said. “Persistence is absolutely key and that persistence is about being able to stay where you need to be when you need to be there,” he said. The Navy plans to deploy LDUUVs from a dedicated unmanned undersea vehicle squadron on an independent mission no later than 2020, Mabus said. Besides LDUUV, the Office of Naval Research is working on other systems such as the Ghost Swimmer, a stealthy autonomous underwater vehicle that resembles a fish that can be used for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions, clandestine sensor positioning and as a communication relay in denied areas. While scientists have tried to create systems that emulate fish before, ONR’s Ghost Swimmer is a “breakthrough” because of the work its engineers did in basic, applied and advanced material research, and new molecules and structures that were used to withstand pressures on the system’s hull, Winter said. The vehicle – which has affectionately been called “Silent Nemo” – can operate at 2 knots for 25 nautical miles while carrying 40 pounds of payload and still sound natural, he said. It is currently in the fleet undergoing tests with sailors. “We’re learning from them as we always do,” he said. Mabus said the Navy also wants systems that can be used in multiple domains. During his remarks at the AUVSI conference, the secretary showed off a quadcopter known as the Kraken, a reference to the mythical sea monster that terrified sailors centuries ago. The system, which is low-cost and 3D-printed, can lurk underwater for long periods of time and then “pop up” when instructed to do so, he said. “It’s pretty cool,” he added. If industry can continue to develop less expensive and more advanced systems, that will bode well for their increased utility in the military and commercial sectors, he said. Commercial companies will be keen to use the systems to monitor their coastal or deep-sea infrastructure, he said. The next step will be arming UUVs, he said. They could be placed at “chokepoints” on the ocean floor, scan for enemy subs and shoot them. These types of systems are a few years away, he said. In “maybe five years, you’re going to have some of these systems at least be available in a prototype form,” he said. “You’re going to have the ability to have payloads that you can put on the bottom [of the sea] that could have a missile on them if you wanted to ... or have the ability for them to engage military targets like ships and submarines either autonomously or with some kind of person in the loop.” UUVs can send data via acoustic signals for long distance communications or light for shorter distances, he said. “You can create a network of communications where your long-haul communications are acoustic, your short-haul communications are light-based and then you have got getaways to RF [radio frequency] buoys or via a ship,” he said. Because radio frequency signals cannot be used undersea, communication systems below the surface of the ocean will never be as fast as those in the air, he said. Peter W. Singer, a strategist and senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a Washington, D.C. think tank, said UUVs will be a critical part of undersea warfare in the future, but there are still obstacles. “It’s not just about what can the technology do, it’s acceptance within that military organization, the culture that plays in it,” he said. “So far, much like in the air, unmanned systems have been viewed as a supplement to manned systems – it’s something the manned system can bring into battle potentially, not as a replacement – and when it starts to become a replacement that’s when you start to get the controversy.” Military strategists are also thinking of new ways to use the systems, including employing them in swarms – a concept where many small, inexpensive systems can overpower one large, sophisticated target, he said. Over the past year, the Navy has put a spotlight on the development of its unmanned systems. Mabus said in late October that such technology will play a large role in future service operations. “As we look to the future, unmanned systems will continue to be a viable and growing area of our military and our capabilities,” he said. In 2015 Mabus announced the creation of a deputy assistant secretary position for unmanned systems as well as a new directorate within the office of the chief of naval operations for such systems. “The change to the organization is a reflection of the priority that we’re placing on this emerging capability and how critical it is that we have cohesive leadership for unmanned programs,” Mabus said. http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2016/january/Pages/NavysLongEnduranceUnderwaterDronetoBeginDeepOceanNavigation.aspx Return to Top NRL-Developed Micro-UAV Named POPULAR SCIENCE 'Best of What's New' The small glider Close-in Covert Autonomous Disposable Aircraft (CICADA) developed by U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) aerospace engineers, Aaron D. Kahn and Dr. Daniel J. Edwards, has been named '2015 Best of What's New http://www.popsci.com/best-of-whats-new-2015/aerospace by the distinguished science and technology publication, POPULAR SCIENCE. CICADA 2015 http://www.nrl.navy.mil/PressReleases/2015/84-15r_CICADA_PopSci_2000x1182.jpg  Winner of the 2015 POPULAR SCIENCE 'Best of What's New Award,' the NRL-developed Close-in Covert Autonomous Disposable Aircraft (CICADA) is a low-cost, GPS-guided micro disposable air vehicle designed for launch from manned or unmanned aircraft, balloons, or precision guided munitions. Essentially a flying printed circuit board, the micro-unmanned glider can be equipped with mission specific sensors and has an integrated rate gyroscope and GPS receiver for navigation and flight control of the vehicle. The CICADA unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is a low-cost, GPS-guided micro disposable air vehicle that can be deployed in large numbers. Having no source of propulsion on-board, the small craft is released from another airborne platform at altitude and the CICADA then glides to its destination. Its lack of a motor and small size makes it nearly undetectable in flight. "Essentially a flying circuit board, CICADA is inherently stable in glide and is designed for launch from manned or unmanned aircraft, balloons, or precision guided munitions," Edwards says. "After deployment, CICADA glides to a way-point, enters an orbit, and then descends within that orbit until it reaches the ground, typically landing with an average error of fifteen feet from the commanded orbit." Having a 3.5 to 1 glide ratio, CICADA allows sensors to be deployed at very comfortable standoff distances. In the air, meteorological, chemical, or biological measurements can be taken, quickly sampling a large volume of the sky. Once on the ground, communication nodes will be established. The POPULAR SCIENCE 28th Annual Best of What's New Award nominates ideas that are revolutionary, that transform their category, solve an unsolvable problem, and incorporate entirely new ideas, and functions, i.e., the product or technology must exist and must be demonstrable and testable. http://www.nrl.navy.mil/media/news-releases/2015/nrl-developed-micro-uav-named-popular-science-best-of-whats-new Return to Top Unmanned underwater vehicles will help with harbor and ship's force protection QUINCY, Mass. U.S. Navy officials selected Bluefin Robotics for unmanned underwater vehicles that will assist in remotely searching and investigating ship hulls, harbor sea floors, among other areas of interest for improved force protection. The contract’s estimated worth is $5 million. Vehicle orders under this contract will be used in the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Hull Unmanned Underwater Vehicle Localization System (EOD HULS) Program of Record, officials say. Known as the MK19, the EOD HUL system consists of two vehicles and associated support equipment. Bluefin Robotics will also provide engineering support, operator training, on-board repair parts, depot spares, retrofit, addition of new capabilities, and the manufacturing of systems 6 and 7. Delivery of Systems 6 and 7 are scheduled for Spring 2016.  http://mil-embedded.com/news/unmanned-underwater-vehicles-will-help-with-harbor-and-ship-force-protection/ Return to Top Northrop Tests Tail-sitter VTOL for DARPA’s Tern UAV Northrop Grumman revealed a flying-wing tailsitter design as the company’s offering for an experimental unmanned air system that can bring Predator-sized payload and endurance to naval ships smaller than aircraft carriers. The design concept forms the basis of Northrop’s proposal for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s Tern program. DARPA plans to award the contract in January to build and fly a full-scale prototype from a barge or decommissioned navy ship, says Chris Hernandez, senior vice-president of research, technology and advanced design for Northrop. At DARPA’s request, Northrop is not releasing pictures or drawings of its Tern concept, but displayed a model of the aircraft on a 11 December tour for journalists in Los Angeles. Northrop’s unmanned Tern design harkens back to the manned Lockheed XFV-1 concept of the early 1950s, which also featured a tailsitter configuration with nose-mounted counter-rotating propellers to provide vertical thrust for take-off and landing and forward thrust in horizontal flight. But Northrop adds to the tailsitter approach by combining the engine with a pure flying wing design, a hallmark of several of the company’s bomber and surveillance aircraft since the mid-1930s. DARPA wants an unmanned vehicle that can operate from DDG-class ships or smaller, with the ability to carry a 272kg (600lb) payload up to 900nm (1,670km). It also must be able to land vertically on a rolling deck in Sea State 5 conditions, meaning waves between 2.5m to 4m tall. Northrop’s last remaining competitor for the Tern contract until September was AeroVironment, which announced in September that it had not been down-selected for phase III. Although Northrop has no known rivals for the Tern award, company officials say DARPA has not awarded the contract yet. Northrop’s tailsitter design includes a set of large counter-rotating propellers covering almost two-thirds of a roughly 9.14m (30ft)-diameter wingspan, Hernandez says. It carriers weapons and sensors as stores underneath the wing. Although the company seems confident about its performance calculations, it is waiting for wind tunnel test data next moth to validate the aerodynamic claims. https://www.flightglobal.com/news/articles/flying-wing-tailsitter-emerges-as-last-proposal-for-420005/ Return to Top PSU Helps the Navy Learn 'The Art Of The Possible' Its scientists have developed "anti-torpedos" – seafaring interceptors akin to Patriot missiles. They're designing new navigation systems to allow sailors and soldiers to know where they are when GPS isn't available. They're working on a new fuel made from aluminum powder and seawater that would let unmanned vehicles stay in the depths longer as they hunt down enemy mines. Without fanfare, this work – much of it top secret – goes on in a nondescript building on Pennsylvania State University's main campus, the Applied Research Laboratory, which conducts more than $200 million in research each year, the bulk of that for the Navy. "We help the government figure out the art of the possible," Allan Sonsteby, deputy executive director, said at lab headquarters, a basic brick building next to the university power plant in State College. The nation's 13 university-affiliated research centers grew out of World War II, when U.S. leaders wanted to forge closer relationships between scientists and the military. At Penn State, the lab answers the call of the Navy. Close to a decade ago, the request was: Can you kill an incoming torpedo? The Navy wanted better protection for its aircraft carriers, 6,000-person cities at sea for months at a time. Out came the lab's anti-torpedo. The first one went on the USS George H.W. Bush carrier in 2012. Some work is not classified. The additive manufacturing lab stepped up when the Navy announced intentions to put 3-D printers on aircraft carriers to manufacture boat parts by 2017. The 3-D parts can be lighter, better performing, more intricate, and less expensive, Simpson said. The same technology helps the Joint Interagency Task Force South in Key West, Fla., ferret out illicit drug traffic. The military agency oversees 42 million square miles of ocean. Four Penn State research lab scientists work in the building. "You know what the best system in the world is for detecting anomalies?" Sonsteby said. "Your mind." At the site, which Penn State acquired in 1996, some current research centers on "assured navigation," how to find a location without GPS by starting out with a known position and using various sensors. http://www.philly.com/philly/news/20151221_PSU_helps_the_Navy_learn__the_art_of_the_possible_.html Return to Top ARMY: New autonomous robot extends communication beyond line-of-sight JOINT BASE MCGUIRE-DIX-LAKEHURST, N.J. (Dec. 1, 2015) -- Army engineers demonstrated autonomous robots as part of a teaming effort to evolve natural interaction between Soldiers and autonomous systems during an exercise here, Nov. 2-3. This interaction allows for one Soldier to use numerous unmanned systems, which require neither dedicated operators nor significant cognitive burden on the part of commanders. The U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Research, Development and Engineering Center Technology Enhancements in Autonomous Machines, or C-TEAM, was rapidly initialized to focus on the single mid-term exercise. The team used two Modular Detection and Response System, or MDARS, robots for the demonstration. The two MDARS navigated autonomously to their destinations while the C-TEAM followed in a chase vehicle, and engineers verified that the radios provided a communications relay by watching the video streams from each vehicle and sending it back to the commander vehicle via a radio network. Chuck Shoemaker, lead for autonomous systems at CERDEC, said the concept of the demonstration was to show how the commander can leverage unmanned ground vehicles, or UGVs, to create beyond line-of-sight communications; use mission command applications to create plans and task the UGVs to execute mission, leverage the sensors on board the unmanned systems for situation awareness; and get eyes-on-target for target detection and engage the enemy from beyond line-of-sight. Autonomous robots are capable of task execution with limited supervision, and their capabilities continue to advance rapidly. Each of the directorates used their science and technology expertise to enhance the capabilities of the MDAR robots. The C-TEAM focused on four major areas to include navigation, communications, command and control, and studies to identify new sensors that would provide the look-ahead range, resolution and scan rate to identify a new class of Laser Imagining and Detection Systems, or LIDARS. http://www.army.mil/article/159353/New_autonomous_robot_extends_communication_beyond_line_of_sight/?from=RSS Return to Top Squad X Core Technologies Takes First Steps toward Improving Capabilities To succeed in their missions, military units must have a robust, multi-faceted picture of their operational environments, including the location, nature and activity of both threats and allied forces around them. Technology is making this kind of rich, real-time situational awareness increasingly available to airborne and other vehicle-assigned forces, along with a capacity to deploy precision armaments more safely, quickly and effectively. Dismounted infantry squads, however, have so far been unable to take full advantage of some of these highly effective capabilities because many of the technologies underlying them are too heavy and cumbersome for individual Soldiers and Marines to carry or too difficult to use under demanding field conditions. To address this application lag, DARPA’s Squad X Core Technologies (SXCT) program aims to develop novel technologies that could be integrated into user-friendly systems that would extend squad awareness and engagement capabilities without imposing physical and cognitive burdens. The program, whose overarching goal is to ensure that Soldiers and Marines maintain uncontested tactical superiority over potential adversaries, recently awarded Phase 1 contracts to nine organizations. DARPA has awarded Phase 1 contracts for SXCT to the following organizations:  * * * * * * * * * Helios Remote Sensing Systems (Utica, N.Y.) Kitware (Clifton Park, N.Y.) Leidos (Huntsville, Ala., and San Diego, Calif.) Lockheed Martin Corporation (Cherry Hill, N.J., and Grand Prairie, Tex.) Raytheon Company (Tucson, Ariz.) Scientific Systems Company, Inc. (Woburn, Mass.) Six3 Systems, Inc. (Mclean, Va.) SoarTech (Ann Arbor, Mich.) SRI International (Menlo Park, Calif.) SXCT is pursuing research in the following four technical areas:  Precision Engagement: Precisely engage threats out to 0.6 mile (1,000 meters), while * maintaining compatibility with infantry weapon systems and without imposing weight or operational burdens that would negatively affect mission effectiveness. Capabilities of interest include distributed, non-line-of-sight targeting and guided munitions. Non-Kinetic Engagement: Disrupt enemy command and control, communications and use of * unmanned assets at a squad-relevant operational pace (walking with occasional bursts of speed). Capabilities of interest include dis-aggregated electronic surveillance and coordinated effects from distributed platforms. Squad Sensing: Detect potential threats out to 0.6 mile (1,000 meters) at a squad-relevant * operational pace. Capabilities of interest include multi-source data fusion and autonomous threat detection. Squad Autonomy: Increase squad members’ real-time knowledge of their own and teammates’ * locations to less than 20 feet (6 meters) in GPS-denied environments through collaboration with embedded unmanned air and ground systems. Capabilities of interest include robust collaboration between humans and unmanned systems. The U.S. Army, U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps have expressed interest in future SXCT capabilities. http://www.darpa.mil/news-events/2015-12-10 Return to Top USAF: Air Force offers $125K bonuses to keep RPA pilots As the Air Force scrambles to hold on to remotely piloted aircraft pilots to help feed the military's ravenous need for more intelligence, the service is for the first time offering them critical skills retention bonuses of $125,000 if they agree to serve five more years. In a Tuesday release, the Air Force said that 18X RPA pilots who have accumulated six years of aviation service after completing their undergraduate RPA pilot training — meaning their obligation is expiring — are eligible for the bonus of five annual installments of $25,000. They also have the option of receiving 50 percent of the bonus up front, the Air Force said. To be eligible, officers also must be active duty lieutenant colonels or below, and must be receiving RPA aviation incentive pay, and they cannot complete 25 years of active-duty service before the five-year bonus period ends. "It is important to ensure RPA pilots receive a bonus that is equitable to other pilots," Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James said in the release. "Therefore, we worked closely with OSD to implement the CSRB for them and with a commensurate amount this year. These airmen are making extremely important contributions to the fight; we need these professionals to stay with us and we're committed to retaining them in our force." In July, the Air Force floated a plan to offer $15,000 retention bonuses for commitments of either five years — for a total of $75,000 — or nine years, for a total of $135,000. In an email, Air Force spokeswoman Rose Richeson said that "was a projection," and Tuesday's announcement represents the final, approved version of the bonus program. Aviator retention pay The Air Force also said it will allow pilots, whose undergraduate flying training active-duty service commitments are due to expire in fiscal 2017, to sign up for an aviator retention pay bonus this year. In the release, Brig. Gen. Brian Kelly, director of military force management policy, said that those pilots would receive their first payment as soon as their contracts are ratified. The remaining payments would be spread out equally through the rest of the contract term. Pilots signing up for aviator retention pay agreements of either five or nine years could get $15,000 to $25,000 per year, depending on their aviator category. That means they could get between $75,000 to $225,000 in retention pay. Combat systems officers from the rescue, remotely piloted aircraft and fighter career fields can accept an aviator retention pay agreement for five or nine years — but not exceeding 20 years of aviation service. RPA combat systems officers and air battle managers are also eligible for the same aviator retention pay as other RPA pilots. To be eligible for aviator retention pay, officers must be lieutenant colonels or below, qualified for operational flying duty and receiving monthly flight pay. http://www.c4isrnet.com/story/military-tech/uas/2015/12/16/air-force-offers-125k-bonuses-keep-rpa-pilots/77420130/ Return to Top Enlisted Drone Pilots Coming Enlisted airmen will now be able to fly unarmed RQ-4 Global Hawks in the Air Force, the service announced Dec. 17. The decision is the latest step intended to alleviate strain on the undermanned remotely piloted aircraft community. "Our enlisted force is the best in the world and I am completely confident they will be able to do the job and do it well,"  Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James said in a release. "The RPA enterprise is doing incredibly important work and this is the right decision to ensure the Air Force is positioned to support the future threat environment." Air Force leadership has ordered Air Combat Command to develop a plan over the next six months to lay out entry requirements, training plans, career path development, delineation of duties, compensation details, and the appropriate force mix, according to the release. Enlisted airmen will not be able to fly the armed MQ-1 Predator and MQ-9 Reaper. The service outlined a series of steps to improve the health and morale of the RPA community late last week, including growing the number of RPA bases and squadrons and increasing manning by up to 3,000 airmen. http://www.airforcemag.com/DRArchive/Pages/2015/December%202015/December%2018%202015/Enlisted-Drone-Pilots-Coming.aspx Return to Top Global Hawk readies for new payload tests Northrop Grumman has scheduled flight tests of three new payloads for the RQ-4B Global Hawk fleet next year. The tests are made possible by the development of a universal payload adapter jointly funded by Northrop and the US Air Force. In its original form, the RQ-4B lacked the payload attach points to fit two sensors carried by the Lockheed Martin U-2S, the reconnaissance aircraft the Global Hawk is scheduled to replace after Fiscal 2019. The optical bar camera is used to monitor the Sinai peninsula in Egypt, fulfilling US treaty obligations. The senior year electro-optical reconnaissance system (SYERS-2) payload is used by the U-2 to collect multi-spectral images, a product that proved useful in the last decade for detecting improvised explosive devices recently buried in the ground. Both sensors will be demonstrated on board the RQ-4 during 2016, says Mike Lyons, a Northrop business development director. The 544kg (1,200lb) UPA was observed fitted to an RQ-4B on a tour of Northrop’s Global Hawk assembly line in Palmdale, California on 10 December. The SYERS-2 flight test will be performed as a demonstration, Lyons says. The air force plans to install an upgraded version of the sensor, called the MS-177, for operational service. The MS-177 includes modernized optronics and a gimbaled rotation device, increasing the field of view of the sensor by 20° without needing to change the flight path of the aircraft, Lyons says. https://www.flightglobal.com/news/articles/global-hawk-readies-for-new-payload-tests-420082/ Return to Top NATO Global Hawk concludes test flight NATO's first Global Hawk has conducted its first test flight at Edwards Air Force Base, California. The Alliance Ground Surveillance (AGS) UAV is intended for NATO ISR missions such as border and maritime surveillance, humanitarian assistance and support of NATO troops. "NATO AGS's successful initial flight kicks off the program's flight test program and represents Northrop Grumman's commitment to advanced airworthy systems for the Alliance," stated Rob Sheehan, Northrop Grumman's NATO AGS deputy program manager. NATO is buying five Global Hawks plus European-produced mobile ground stations, with the first delivery slated for 2016. The UAVs will be based at Sigonella, Italy, where the U.S. Air Force already bases its Global Hawks. The NATO version will be equipped with the advanced Multi-Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP-RTIP) radar. http://www.c4isrnet.com/story/military-tech/uas/2015/12/21/nato-global-hawk-concludes-test-flight/77708270/ Return to Top Air Force to Allow Enlisted Servicemen to Pilot Drones NBC News http://mailview.bulletinmedia.com/mailview.aspx?m=2015121801aerostates&r=6833553-aaa3&l=005-8cf&t=c (12/18) reports that given the “severe shortage of people trained to fly the remote-controlled aircraft,” Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee “announced Thursday they would now offer the lower ranks the chance to pilot drones.” According to the article, the new recruits will undergo training to be able to remotely pilot RQ-4 Global Hawks, “which fly reconnaissance missions at high altitudes but have no weapons.” However, Air Force Magazine http://mailview.bulletinmedia.com/mailview.aspx?m=2015121801aerostates&r=6833553-aaa3&l=006-4de&t=c  (12/18, Everstine) adds that enlisted airmen will not be able to operate armed MQ-1 Predator and MQ-9 Reaper drones. The Los Angeles Times http://mailview.bulletinmedia.com/mailview.aspx?m=2015121801aerostates&r=6833553-aaa3&l=007-743&t=c (12/18, Hennigan) remarks that drone operators currently in the Air Force are “overworked and badly stressed,” adding that the service has previously “struggled to recruit and retain enough officers to serve as drone pilots.” Therefore, according to the Times, the Air Combat Command is in the process of developing a plan over the next six months that would allow non-officers to become pilots. The plan will also include a study to “address entry requirements, training, career path development and compensation.”  Inside Defense http://mailview.bulletinmedia.com/mailview.aspx?m=2015121801aerostates&r=6833553-aaa3&l=008-467&t=c  (12/18, James) reports that Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James said in a statement, “Our enlisted force is the best in the world, and I am completely confident they will be able to do the job and do it well.” Return to Top NATIONAL AIR SPACE: New comprehensive report on the risks drones pose to aircraft Washington_ADIZ-FRZ_No_Fly_ZoneWith the holiday season approaching, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) estimates that up to one million new drones will be entering U.S. airspace, creating potentially dangerous situations for unmanned and manned aircraft. A new study released by The Center for the Study of the Drone at Bard College offers a comprehensive examination of incidents involving drones and manned aircraft in the national airspace over the past two years. Using data from the FAA and Department of Interior, the report, “Drone Sightings and Close Encounters: An Analysis,” explores 921 incidents in the national airspace from December 2013 to September 2015. Coauthors Dan Gettinger and Arthur Holland Michel identified 327 close encounters in which drones presented some level of hazard to manned aircraft, 90 of which involved commercial multiengine jets, and 594 sightings, in which drones were spotted near or within manned aircraft flight paths but did not pose immediate danger of collision. The report is available online for free. The report presents an analysis of altitude, distance from airports, drone-to-aircraft proximity, manned aircraft type, drone type, and time of day. The study found that incidents were more likely to involve multirotor unmanned aircraft than fixed-wing drones, and predominantly occurred far above the Federal Aviation Administration’s 400-foot ceiling for unmanned aircraft, often within five miles of an airport. In addition to the authors’ findings, the report presents extensive background on the issue and details the potential consequences of a collision between a manned aircraft and a drone. “With more and more drones entering our airspace, ‘Drone Sightings and Close Encounters’ will serve as a reliable resource for policymakers and the industry as they work to develop strategies and solutions to address the growing number of potentially dangerous incidents between manned and unmanned aircraft,” said Gettinger. “Our hope is that this study can help engender a collaborative dialogue among stakeholders working on this issue.” The Center for the Study of the Drone at Bard College is an interdisciplinary research institution founded in 2012 that examines the novel and complex opportunities and challenges presented by unmanned technologies in both the military and civilian sphere. ‘Drone Sightings and Close Encounters: An Analysis’ is also available at the below link. http://robohub.org/new-report-offers-comprehensive-study-of-the-risks-drones-pose-to-aircraft/?utm_source=Robohub+Newsletter&utm_campaign=620e864c1c-Robohub_Weekly1_21_2015&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_ac6e5b121c-620e864c1c-118325753 Return to Top FAA Issues Fact Sheet on State and Local UAS Laws December 17- The Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) new fact sheet on state and local regulation of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) provides information for states and municipalities considering laws or regulations addressing UAS use. The document outlines FAA's safety reasons for federal oversight of aviation and airspace, and explains federal responsibility in this area. The fact sheet provides examples of state and local laws affecting UAS for which consultation with the FAA is recommended, such as restrictions on flight altitude or flight paths, regulation of the navigable airspace, and mandating UAS-specific equipment or training. The fact sheet also gives examples of UAS laws likely to fall within state and local government authority, such as requirements for police to obtain a warrant prior to using UAS for surveillance; prohibitions on the use of UAS for voyeurism; exclusions on using UAS for hunting or fishing, or harassing individuals engaged in those activities; and prohibitions on attaching firearms or other weapons to a UAS. Fact Sheet PDF available at below link: http://www.faa.gov/news/updates/?newsId=84369&omniRss=news_updatesAoc&cid=101_N_U Return to Top AMA to FAA on Model Registration: Hold Your Horses! http://www.the-nref.org/sites/default/files/15.%20SIDEBAR%20WALKERA%20QUAD_0.JPG  The FAA has recently announced that all pilots of radio control vehicles (“models”) that fly in the National Air Space (NAS) must be registered. The Academy of Model Aeronautics just filed suit against the FAA in a dispute over the proposed registration requirement, and has asked its members to not register until the last day of the proposed FAA registration period, February 19, 2016, pending advice from the AMA, and/or the outcome of the suit. http://www.the-nref.org/sites/default/files/360_uncle_sam_1103.jpg The FAA explains that its registration requirement came about owing to advanced GPS and similar technologies that enable aerial vehicles to easily be guided to specific destinations – such as anyone's front door. Anyone 13 years of age or older flying radio control (RC) models in the National Air Space (NAS) would be subject to the new registration requirement, as it stands. It applies to anyone flying any radio-controlled model outdoors that weighs 250 grams (8+ oz. ), up to 55 pounds total weight. The FAA comments that it is taking as non-intrusive a position as it reasonably can in establishing this registration requirement. By way of background, the proposed ID system would enable the authorities to quickly identify the origin of any unmanned vehicle. Under the requirement, aircraft must have an easily readable ID number on or in the airframe. With the ID number clearly visible, it would be easy to identify the owner and locate his or her address via the national registry. One could view this as similar in kind to the societal obligations we assume when obtaining a driver's license. Be that as it may, the AMA considers this to be AMA business, not that of the FAA. Illustration: Filippo Monteforte / AFP / Getty. Story and Photo by Tom Atwood. FAA explains its position, here: https://www.faa.gov/uas/registration/faqs/https://www.faa.gov/uas/registration/faqs/ FAA Drone registration opens December 21, 2016: http://www.faa.gov/uas/registration/ FAA answers to the most frequently asked questions: Further FAA guidance on safety can be found at www.faa.gov/uas/model_aircraft https://www.faa.gov/uas/model_aircraft/ Information on the weights of toys, courtesy of the FAA, can be found at: Recreational UAS Weights document https://www.faa.gov/uas/registration/faqs/media/UAS_Weights_Registration.pdf Forbes reveals that under the FAA program, addresses of users will be publicly available:  http://www.forbes.com/sites/johngoglia/2015/12/18/faa-finally-admits-names-and-home-addresses-in-drone-registry-will-be-publicly-available/ IEEE Spektrum explains the dimensions of the FAA's proposed registration requirement, here:  http://spectrum.ieee.org/automaton/robotics/aerial-robots/faa-mandatory-drone-registration The AMA (Academy of Model Aeronautics) Position Statement: http://amablog.modelaircraft.org/amagov/2015/12/17/hold-off-on-registering-model-aircraft/  “As we proceed with this process, we suggest AMA members hold off on registering their model aircraft with the FAA until advised by the AMA or until February 19, the FAA’s legal deadline for registering existing model aircraft. Holding off on registration will allow AMA time to fully consider all possible options.” Return to Top FAA Announces Small UAS Registration Rule WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) today announced a streamlined and user-friendly web-based aircraft registration process for owners of small unmanned aircraft (UAS) weighing more than 0.55 pounds (250 grams) and less than 55 pounds (approx. 25 kilograms) including payloads such as on-board cameras. The Registration Task Force delivered recommendations to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx on November 21. The rule incorporates many of the task force recommendations. “Make no mistake: unmanned aircraft enthusiast are aviators, and with that title comes a great deal of responsibility,” said U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx. “Registration gives us an opportunity to work with these users to operate their unmanned aircraft safely. I’m excited to welcome these new aviators into the culture of safety and responsibility that defines American innovation.” Registration is a statutory requirement that applies to all aircraft. Under this rule, any owner of a small UAS who has previously operated an unmanned aircraft exclusively as a model aircraft prior to December 21, 2015, must register no later than February 19, 2016. Owners of any other UAS purchased for use as a model aircraft after December 21, 2015 must register before the first flight outdoors. Owners may use either the paper-based process or the new streamlined, web-based system. Owners using the new streamlined web-based system must be at least 13 years old to register. Owners may register through a web-based system at www.faa.gov/uas/registration Registrants will need to provide their name, home address and e-mail address. Upon completion of the registration process, the web application will generate a Certificate of Aircraft Registration/Proof of Ownership that will include a unique identification number for the UAS owner, which must be marked on the aircraft. Owners using the model aircraft for hobby or recreation will only have to register once and may use the same identification number for all of their model UAS. The registration is valid for three years. The normal registration fee is $5, but in an effort to encourage as many people as possible to register quickly, the FAA is waiving this fee for the first 30 days (from Dec. 21, 2015 to Jan 20, 2016). “We expect hundreds of thousands of model unmanned aircraft will be purchased this holiday season,” said FAA Administrator Huerta. “Registration gives us the opportunity to educate these new airspace users before they fly so they know the airspace rules and understand they are accountable to the public for flying responsibly.” The online registration system does not yet support registration of small UAS used for any purpose other than hobby or recreation – for example, using an unmanned aircraft in connection with a business. The FAA is developing enhancements that will allow such online registrations by spring of 2016. The full rule can be viewed here: www.faa.gov/news/updates/media/20151213_IFR.pdf http://www.faa.gov/news/press_releases/news_story.cfm?newsId=19856 Return to Top Stanford Software Predicts and Prevents Collisions The Stanford Intelligent Systems Laboratory (SISL) is part of a broad partnership led by NASA Ames to create an unmanned aerial system traffic management system, or UTM, to manage the expected surge in unmanned flights. ”UTM is meant to fulfill a lot of the functions of air traffic control, but it will be in the cloud and largely automated,” said SISL Director Mykel Kochenderfer, an assistant professor of aeronautics and astronautics. NASA envisions that the UTM system will be able to support the orchestration of a huge number of drone operations without air traffic control operators monitoring each and every vehicle in the air. A key attribute of this system will involve automated conflict avoidance – software that can alert multiple drones when a collision is possible, and calculate the maneuvers necessary to avoid it. Kochenderfer recently coauthored a new paper with mechanical engineering graduate student Hao Yi Ong in which they detail a conflict-avoidance algorithm that, when implemented within the UTM system, will minimize the threat of low-altitude, unmanned collisions. Ong says the sheer projected number of drones would make it impractical to replicate the human-operated air traffic control system to regulate drone flights. Today the Federal Aviation Administration has 15,000 human controllers to manage roughly 87,000 pilot-driven flights per day. Amazon’s drone projections alone could dwarf those numbers. Ong has conservatively estimated that Amazon Prime’s roughly 40 million subscribers could generate 130,000 drone deliveries per normal shopping day. And that’s before accounting for the dozens of other companies including Google and Matternet that are also developing commercial drone operations. “You’re not going to hire another 30,000 people just to handle the traffic from drones,” Ong said. “It’s just not feasible.” Avoiding conflict NASA envisions that the cloud-based, largely autonomous UTM system will roll out in a series of four builds with increasing capabilities. The first build, which was released in August, largely focuses on geo-fencing – GPS-based corridors for drone flights – to maintain safety and efficiency. “That works for farming applications,” Ong said. “But once you want to start moving transport drones around urban areas, you can’t really do that, because you’re not going to block out the airspace over entire residential areas just for when your aircraft is flying through.” The Stanford team believes that automated conflict avoidance is the best way to enable a greater density of flights in crowded areas. But automating conflict avoidance to deal with the volume of drone traffic will require new algorithms to predict and avoid potential collisions. Previously, when Kochenderfer worked at MIT’s Lincoln Laboratory, he developed a new approach to collision avoidance that is being incorporated into a next-generation system for manned aircraft, called ACAS X, that could serve as the building block for such a protocol. The system employs a process known as dynamic programming to figure out optimal collision avoidance strategies. In ACAS X, the software alerts human operators of potential risk and recommends a maneuver to avoid collision. The result has been a system that significantly enhances safety while decreasing the number of unnecessary alerts. “The FAA was very happy with the outcome and supported further development,” Kochenderfer said. Indeed, the ACAS X system is currently being standardized by the FAA and the international safety community. Beating ‘the curse of dimensionality’  “In traditional aviation, conflicts between more than two aircraft are pretty rare,” Ong said. But in confined, urban airspaces, conflicts could easily involve three or more drones. For instance, consider several packages being delivered to the same address. Or imagine a blaze that draws multiple drones from the fire department, police and local media. “As the number of aircraft grows, the avoidance problem becomes exponentially more complicated, a challenge that mathematicians call the curse of dimensionality,” Ong said. “So we have to come up with better ways than just brute-force searching and iterating through all possible solutions.” To beat the curse, Ong’s cloud computing architecture separates multi-aircraft conflicts into paired problems. It quickly picks the best action for each pair of drones from a table predicting each drone’s flight path. The server then coordinates each of these pairwise solutions and issues a joint collision avoidance order to all of the affected drones. In a matter of milliseconds, a dozen drones delivering Christmas Eve packages will know precisely what maneuvers to take to ensure each enjoys a safe flight path down a crowded cul-de-sac. To test this approach, the researchers ran over 1 million simulations of encounters between two to 10 aircraft. They compared their pairwise solution to other solutions, such as a less-coordinated strategy in which each drone only reacts to its closest threat. Their pairwise solution showed significant safety improvements, faster decision times and decreased alert rates. Ong and Kochenderfer said more work remains to be done, for instance, to account for communication breakdowns, sudden weather anomalies or deliberately disruptive drones. But they expect that an evolved version of their architecture will be implemented in one of the final builds of the UTM, which NASA estimates will be completed by 2019. “It’s gratifying to work on a problem that people are coming together and knocking heads and figuring out the best solution, even though there actually isn’t a single profitable flight yet,” said Ong, whose work was recognized in September as the best graduate student paper at the Digital Avionics Systems Conference held in Prague. http://www.uasvision.com/2015/12/17/stanford-software-predicts-and-prevents-collisions/?utm_source=Newsletter&utm_campaign=d91917a7d6-RSS_EMAIL_CAMPAIGN&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_799756aeb7-d91917a7d6-297560805 Return to Top PUBLIC SAFETY: National Science Foundation and Others Award $37M in Co-Robot Funding The development of co-robots in the U.S. has just received an injection in the arm. This week the National Science Foundation (NSF)—in partnership with the DOD, DARPA, NASA, the NIH, and the USDA—announced a $37 million slew of awards to bolster the development of robots meant to work cooperatively with humans. According to the NSF, the awards run the gamut of the development cycle, from fundamental research to prototyping and testing. Some examples of projects include improving brain-controlled prosthetic devices, designing robots for search and rescue efforts, and robots that can assist with healthcare tasks. This marks the fourth round of awards from the National Robotics Initiative, which the federal government launched in June 2011. In that time, the NSF and partner agencies have invested $150 million in research, prototyping and testing, and education efforts. In 2015, funds from the initiative supported 66 research proposals from 47 research institutions in 27 states. Joining the partnership for 2016 proposal calls http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2016/nsf16517/nsf16517.htm  is the DOE. “Basic research to develop the underlying understanding and technologies for robots and robotic systems is resulting in profound advances in the field with the potential to augment human abilities, perform dangerous tasks unsuitable for people and improve our quality of life,” said Jim Kurose, NSF's assistant director for computer and information science and engineering. “Working together with many federal agencies has helped to develop a broad portfolio of robotics research with a greater impact than any one agency could do by itself. We are excited to be growing this effort through the addition of the (DOE).” http://www.rdmag.com/news/2015/12/national-science-foundation-and-others-award-37m-co-robot-funding Return to Top Unmanned Aerial Systems for Forest Operations  Recent technological advances in the area of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) have led to affordable and flexible solutions for planning forest operations and monitoring compliance. The Canadian Institute of Forestry, in collaboration with FPInnovations and Sumac Geomatics, has organized a series of workshop on UAS use and application in forestry operations here in Ontario. These one day workshops will provide an introduction to UAS, examine current practices from theory to operations and highlight real world case studies. The series of workshops’ technical presentations will feature experts, intent on challenging participants to truly learn, not only Unmanned Aerial Systems tools, technology and products, but also to recognize and understand their advantage and value relating to forestry and natural resources management policy, planning and practice. For more information, please click on the links below: Hearst – March 8th 2016 https://www.cif-ifc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/UAS-Workshop-March-8-2016-Hearst-ON.pdf Thunder Bay – March 22nd 2016 https://www.cif-ifc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/UAS-Workshop-March-22-2016-Thunder-Bay-ON.pdf Kenora – March 24th 2016 https://www.cif-ifc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/UAS-Workshop-March-24-2016-Kenora-ON.pdf http://www.cif-ifc.org/2015/12/unmanned-aerial-systems-for-forest-operations-ontario-workshops-hearst-thunder-bay-kenora-march-2016/ Return to Top Business Joins Academia for Large-Scale Face-Search to Fight Crime, Terrorism Surveillance cameras are omnipresent on modern life. In a famous example, London, England has one camera for every fourteen residents. The big problem is not gathering the data, but processing it in an efficient, effective, and timely manner. What is needed is the ability to quickly and accurately analyze and search the data in order to identify and apprehend terrorist and criminal suspects. To this end, Michigan State University (MSU) has licensed its automatic, large-scale face-search system to NEC Corp. Bio-metrics expert Anil Jain, MSU Distinguished Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, Dayong Wang postdoctoral fellow at MSU, and Charles Otto, an MSU PhD student have developed the automatic, large-scale face-search system. The system can use a photo from a surveillance camera to search a database of face images for the closest match and quickly identify a suspect. “The strength of this face-search system is that it can process and search so-called ‘faces in the wild’ — unconstrained images,” Jain said. “Unconstrained images are those captured in everyday life that have varied poses, lighting and backgrounds that can make facial recognition challenging. When integrated with a commercial algorithm like NEC Neoface, we achieve even greater accuracy in matching unconstrained face images.”  “NEC is committed to maintain its leadership position in facial recognition solutions,” said Raffie Beroukhim, vice president, NEC Corp of America’s Bio-metrics Solutions Division. “In addition to our own continued research, partnerships with academia, in particular Michigan State University, is an important aspect of this commitment. We look forward to the fusion of MSU large-scale face-search algorithm with our industry-leading Neoface facial algorithms to offer more compelling solutions to address ever-increasing security threats and enhance public and national security.” http://i-hls.com/2015/12/67339/?utm_source=Israel+Homeland+Security+%28iHLS%29&utm_campaign=00b06e422e-ENGLISH_DYNAMIC&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_8ee2e16ed1-00b06e422e-89865369&mc_cid=00b06e422e&mc_eid=532334b8e8 Return to Top Breakthroughs, collaboration set flight plan for UAS GRAND FORKS -- Bob Becklund doesn't have to go far to see the future of unmanned aircraft. As executive director of the Northern Plains Unmanned Aircraft Systems Test Site, he only has to walk down the hall and talk to one of his staff members. "They're all experts at what they do," he said. "When they have an idea, you're going to listen to them." The test site, which is operated by the state but exists because of a congressional mandate on the Federal Aviation Administration, is charged with researching how to safely integrate unmanned aircraft into the national airspace. This year, its crews have assisted businesses that want to explore potential uses of unmanned aircraft. These clients include companies in the insurance, railroad, energy and real estate industries and even NASA. On the horizon for NDSU is a large-scale agricultural research project aimed at comparing imagery taken by unmanned aircraft from various altitudes while UND intends to create an unmanned aircraft flight training program. Building up The unmanned flight training program isn't off the ground quite yet. It has a few more hurdles to clear at the federal level before it becomes official, according to UAS Program Director Al Palmer. In order to conduct flight training for these aircraft, the school must apply for and receive an exemption. The exemption is granted by the FAA and is most often sought by businesses looking to operate unmanned aircraft for commercial purposes, which is otherwise illegal. UND's unmanned flight training program would mirror the school's manned flight training, with students starting on simulators before moving on to flying actual aircraft. Those simulators and other portions of the UAS program are spread miles apart -- a problem Palmers said should be fixed next year. The state has invested nearly $7 million in the establishment and operation of the test site. So far, the site has about $1 million in revenues from contracts that have been completed or are set to be, Becklund said. Some of the contracts are part of larger agreements UND and NDSU have with other firms that total about $3 million. "Right now we're using state funding for this, but of course companies are paying us to do stuff too, so we're already starting to see a return on that investment," Becklund added. "Our end goal is to be self sufficient. ... But it's impossible to predict when that's going to be." The test site has seven active contracts and about 10 more serious inquires from companies. Becklund expects the test site's work to continue past 2017, the year under current law that the test sites in North Dakota and five other states are required to operate until. Flying forward Several distinctions bestowed on the test site this year are helping build up its operations and reputation. The FAA granted its flight crew authorization to fly anywhere in the United States at the altitude of 400 feet and below and the ability to fly up to 1,200 feet anywhere in North Dakota. Those and future permissions are expected to pave the way for more projects and contracts lined up for 2016. One big fish Becklund hopes to land is the ability to fly civilian unmanned aircraft without a chase airplane from Grand Forks Air Force Base, which is home to Grand Sky -- touted as the nation's first business park for unmanned aircraft systems. Chase planes are used to monitor unmanned aircraft operating at altitudes where manned aircraft could be encountered. NDSU researchers partnering with Elbit, an Israeli manufacturer of unmanned aircraft systems, will test image capture capabilities for comparison between large and small aircraft near, Ag Machine Systems Specialist John Nowatzki said. In addition to comparing imagery, researchers also hope the pictures can be used to estimate crop emergence and yields, detect nutrient deficiencies and count livestock. "We're coming close, but we're not there yet," Nowatzki said. http://m.bismarcktribune.com/news/state-and-regional/breakthroughs-collaboration-set-flight-plan-for-uas/article_4b1d4b28-7bab-57dc-aaf9-838aa5d93633.html?mobile_touch=true Return to Top NASA's Virtual Leash for Drones Prevents Runaway Robots Losing a drone can get a person in a lot of trouble. Just ask Shawn Usman, who was flying a drone from his downtown DC apartment on January 26th, when suddenly the drone took off and crashed onto the White House lawn. While in Usman’s case, the Secret Service chose not to press charges, not everyone who loses their drone is so lucky. To stop errant machines, NASA’s created a tool that could help future pilots keep their drones nearby. It’s a special box that plugs into the drone, and when it works, the drones crash. Dubbed Safeguard, it’s a virtual safety net. Users set parameters for a drone, and the machine checks those parameters to make sure it’s flying where it should be. If it ventures to the edge of the boundary, it’s supposed to fly back, and if it doesn’t do that, the safety net sends the drone crashing to the ground before it crosses into a “no-fly-zone”. Other boundary limitation tools for drones, like geofencing, rely on GPS signals hooked up to the drone’s autopilot. They work fine most of the time, so long as the GPS signal is strong and the autopilot doesn’t act up. When it does, a system that relies on both to keep the drone from wandering away is in trouble, so Safeguard instead doesn’t rely on them. Instead, NASA vaguely says it relies on “rigorous mathematics and works independently of the onboard autopilot.” So even if the GPS or the autopilot on the drone fails, the Safeguard can stop the robot from wandering, saving it (and its pilot) the embarrassment of crashing on the White House lawn. http://www.popsci.com/nasa-safety-tool-for-drones-prevents-runaway-robots Return to Top Report: Homeland Security Agencies Wary of Adopting Drone Technology  Red tape within the Department of Homeland Security is stifling the adoption of unmanned aerial systems within its 22 agencies, found a recent report. "Bureaucratic resistance in components across DHS is threatening its ability to effectively acquire and operate unmanned systems," including small systems that have become increasingly inexpensive and more capable, said a report titled "Unmanned Systems in Homeland Security." The report was put together by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based think tank, and the Homeland Security Studies and Analysis Institute, a federally funded research and development center operated by ANSER, a public service research institute based in Falls Church, Virginia. "On balance, the HSE [homeland security enterprise] is not yet well poised to capitalize on, or respond to widespread commercial and consumer use of, unmanned systems," it said. "While work is underway in DHS, for example, it appears to be largely reactive, siloed, focused primarily (though not exclusively) on the air domain, and limited to DHS vice the larger HSE. This is not sufficient for what is likely to be a disruptive technology." Customs and Border Protection has an established program using large Predator systems, but it has yet to fully embrace small systems, the report said. "DHS could make significant use of commercial-off-the-shelf [small] UAS, which will outpace other unmanned systems in domestic quantity and use over the next decade," it said. Small systems "may not offer radically different capabilities than are already available in manned aircraft, but they can offer those capabilities in a more affordable way, and potentially can be fielded and operated in far greater numbers." There is a lack of overarching policy and strategy for the domestic use of such systems which in turn creates "public safety, public affairs and economic risks," it said. That is largely due in part to pending rules being written by the Federal Aviation Administration, said Sam Brannen, one of the authors of the study who works for A.T. Kearney's global business policy council. The FAA is required by Congress to integrate small unmanned aerial systems -- those weighing under 55 pounds -- into the national airspace, but it has so far missed key deadlines. Calling the rules the elephant in the room, Brannen said: "It's only fair to say that the rulemaking process has gone very slowly, and it's only fair to say that it has gone very slowly for a number of very good reasons, including zero tolerance for a decrease in aviation safety as a result of introducing UAS." "The adoption of UAS in the homeland security enterprise has been slowed by FAA rulemaking. We heard from a variety of potential users that they are simply waiting for rules," Brannen said during a Dec. 16 panel discussion at CSIS. Additionally, the delay in regulations is hurting U.S. companies, he said. "The U.S., from a competitiveness stand point, is falling behind other countries because of the regulatory decisions that we're making." It has also resulted in a "Wild West" situation, where some businesses are shirking the rules and flying drones illegally, he said. "The enforcement is extremely weak, the legal precedent is very murky and they're willing to take the chance," he said. "When was the last time you saw a realtor arrested for flying a drone? But when you multiply that across the United States, across commercial sectors it becomes very confusing and congested." More research still needs to be done within federal agencies when it comes to small UAS, he said. During the report's research period in 2014, only the FBI had small UAS in regular operations, Brennen said. Their use was limited to niche applications and line-of-sight operations. While the report was published in January, it was only recently released. Kenneth Rapuano, senior vice president at ANSER and executive director of the HSSAI, said the delay was because of "vagaries" within the homeland security public release approval process. Contact writer Yasmin Tadjdeh at 703-247-2585 or ytadjdeh@ndia.org Return to Top Aerodrome Announces World’s First Commercial Droneport and Teaching Facility LOS ANGELES, CA–( Dec 12, 2015) – INTERNATIONAL DRONE EXPO – The Aerodrome and its partner, the City of Boulder City, NV, announced today the world’s first commercial droneport and teaching facility in Boulder City, NV. A droneport is a facility tailored specifically to Unmanned Air Systems (UAS). Unlike other planned droneport projects previously announced, The Aerodrome’s Eldorado Droneport has already broken ground, is fully funded, permanent and currently operational. This history-making project by Aerodrome and the City of Boulder City has the full support and approval of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “There are currently over 2,500 companies in the U.S. with FAA 333 exemption to fly commercial drones, and only one place in the world where they now take priority over manned aircraft. This droneport is the model for the rest of the country, if not the world.” The 50-acre Eldorado Droneport in Boulder City, NV is located approximately 28 miles from the Las Vegas Strip and is one of only six FAA-appointed UAS test sites in the country. Aerodrome is also environmentally conscious and will generate its own solar power to operate the massive facility. The Eldorado Droneport, which is open to the public but privately operated, offers training for Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS); provides FAA repairman and pilot certification and testing; and offers a variety of other educational, research and development services. E-learning programs are currently taught from the Aerodrome campus in Henderson, NV as well as hosting satellite programs for participants not able to attend in person. The droneport can support civil entities with section 333s and special airworthiness certificates. It will also support hobby and recreational model aircraft flight, including specially-made drone racing courses. The global commercial UAS market size is expected to reach $2.07 billion by 2022, according to a new study by Grand View Research, Inc. (Aug. 2015). http://www.satprnews.com/2015/12/12/the-aerodrome-announces-worlds-first-commercial-droneport-and-teaching-facility/ Return to Top Connecticut DOT to test drone for inspections under bridges The Connecticut Department of Transportation (CDOT) is testing an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), or drone, to inspect the underside of the northbound Gold Star Memorial Bridge in New London on Dec. 15. “This is an important step for our agency—the testing of a new technology with the potential to improve results, efficiency, and safety for the public,” says CDOT Commissioner James P. Redeker. “The willingness to examine new technologies—to innovate and to keep an open mind—is critical if we are to find better ways of doing business, and I applaud the Department’s Bridge Safety Division for initiating this test.” CDOT says it selected the northbound bridge for the test because it is difficult to reach via snooper trucks or ropes and climbers. The drone will provide better access for a visual inspection using on-craft cameras. The bridge was most recently inspected in October. After the inspection is completed, CDOT will review the results and assess the effectiveness of the camera inspection vs. the conventional inspection. The northbound and southbound portions of the Gold Star Memorial Bridge are the longest bridges in the state, measuring approximately one mile on each side. The main spans are roughly 100 feet above the Thames River. http://www.equipmentworld.com/connecticut-dot-to-test-drone-for-inspections-under-bridges/ Return to Top SENSORS/APPLICATIONS: Eighteen rotors, pilot optional Not every chief executive of an aircraft company would take personal control of a prototype test flight, but Alex Zosel was making a point. Zosel, CEO of the German firm e-volo GmbH, grabbed the joystick to demonstrate how easy it is to fly the 18-rotor craft he conceived in 2011, inspired by the advent of small, unmanned aircraft that are now ubiquitous. Unlike traditional (or miniature radio-controlled) helicopters, these multirotor machines are controlled solely by varying the speed of each electric motor independently, with a digital flight controller at the heart of the system that can detect motion and translate pilot inputs to smooth motion in the desired direction. The computer can compensate for the loss of more than one motor simultaneously, and allows the pilot to stop flying at any moment. Zosel said the current prototype is built for testing, though it is finished “like a luxury car. It’s not only a technical prototype, it’s really, really nice.” The test program is underway and the next prototype the company assembles will be the production prototype, Zosel said. The company is developing concepts for versions with zero to four seats, including heavy-lift unmanned aircraft and four-seat “commercial” versions. The unmanned versions are rendered in digital animation in another company video, shown spraying crops. The Volocopter two-seat prototype first flew in 2013. Battery technology has advanced since, but not yet enough to significantly add to the 20 minutes of flight time possible on battery power alone. The company is working on a hybrid power system that would augment the battery array with a combustion engine generator to extend range, adding a bit to the carbon footprint of an aircraft that starts with a very small one (or none, if the batteries are charged with electricity produced from carbon-free sources). If all else fails, it also has a parachute. Ease of operation is highlighted throughout the sales pitch: The Volocopter’s “handling is child’s play,” the company (and Zosel himself) reports. The first manned flights will be made “as soon as all requirements of the responsible aviation authorities are fulfilled,” the company reports. http://www.aopa.org/News-and-Video/All-News/2015/December/07/Eighteen-rotors-pilot-optional?WT.mc_id=151211epilot&WT.mc_sect=tec Return to Top Drone Borrows Bird's Technique for Low Power Flight Kestrel Inspired Foam Drone http://www.popsci.com/sites/popsci.com/files/styles/medium_1x_/public/kestreldrone_0.jpg?itok=4Gk5euQ0  Humans don’t need to reinvent the wing to make a better flying machine. Instead, they can just copy a design from nature. Falcon evolution has had millenniums to perfect wing design, while humans have been flying for barely more than a century  . So to find an efficient flying design for small drones, researchers at RMIT University in Australia borrowed from the wings of a kestrel. Their study, published today in the journal Bioinspiration & Biomimetics, is about using air currents to save energy while in flight. Kestrels are small falcons, weighing on average less than half a pound. (If they were drones, they’d be so light the FAA wouldn’t register them http://www.popsci.com/www.popsci.com/faa-says-all-owners-small-drones-must-register-by-february-19-2016  Kestrels were chosen as the inspiration partly for their small size, and partly because, according to lead author Alex Fisher, "they’ve got a unique way of hunting – hovering over a location without flapping their wings. This allows them to keep their heads still with incredible precision, helping them spot prey on the ground." The researchers built a small, foam drone that uses a program that sends the drone into updrafts, to take advantage of kestrel-like flight. They flew it at a hill and near a building, collecting data on the aerodynamics of the flight as it happened. Flights near the hill were very successful, with the plane staying airborne a full 15 minutes until its batteries drained. Flights near the building were shorter, less than a minute even when remotely controlled by a skilled pilot. Gusty wind proved to be the biggest obstacle. Full Study below: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-3190/11/1/016002/pdf From the paper’s conclusion:  The authors believe this to be a useful strategy for fixed-wing MAVs, both to assist in conserving power by staying within a confined orographic updraft, and to provide a stable platform for surveillance. Flying near buildings remains the greatest challenge, but the researchers think they can overcome them that by modeling updrafts in cities and by flying near buildings outside of city centers, which are less of an obstacle. This is hardly the first time researchers have turned to birds for inspiration with drones. Other attempts have tried to capture flapping and body shape. This study looks more at behavior and environment. Future work could lead to drones that learn to fly like birds, to occupy the same parts of the sky. http://www.popsci.com/drone-borrows-from-birds-to-fly-with-low-power Return to Top UAS used to study climate change impacts on Andes glaciers Researchers at Ohio State University are using unmanned aerial systems (UAS) in the Andes Mountains of Peru to learn how those who depend on glaciers for water might be impacted by climate change. The scientists are mapping glaciers and wetlands in the Cordillera Blanca mountain range with 10-centimeter (4-inch) precision to gauge how climate change might affect the half-million local residents who rely in part on those glaciers for their water supply. Studying the groundwater system would have been difficult without special high-altitude unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) designed and built by Oliver Wigmore, an OSU doctoral student in geography. The aircraft are equipped with time-lapse thermal camera systems developed by Jeffrey McKenzie at McGill University. "UAVs offer some of the best technology available today for gathering data on a scale to inform local water management decisions," Wigmore said. Funded by the National Science Foundation, the project is aimed at investigating water security in other parts of the world with larger populations, such as China and India. Thus far, early results show that the Cordillera Blanca has a healthy groundwater system. "In this area, glacier melt provides up to 50 percent of the water during the dry season, and people use it for farms, hydroelectricity and to drink," Wigmore said. "We know the glaciers are disappearing, so there will be less water available for the dry season in the future. “But what my colleagues and I have found is that the groundwater system is storing some of the glacier melt as well as precipitation,” he explained. “There will still be a significant drop in water supply eventually, but there may be some potential for the groundwater to buffer it." The UAVs—which cost a few thousand dollars each—work well in the cloudy conditions of the Peruvian mountains. In contrast, satellites costing millions of dollars provide half-meter resolution at best and can operate during the two months a year when the region is relatively cloud-free. Wigmore equipped the large, lightweight drones with high-speed motors and extra-long propellers to carry them through the thin air. Flying about 100 meters above the ice and wetlands, the UAVs take hundreds of pictures that overlap, providing 3-D imaging. http://www.uasmagazine.com/articles/1364/uas-used-to-study-climate-change-impacts-on-andes-glaciers Return to Top The FLYBi Drone with VR Goggles Gives You a Bird's Eye View of the World Want a drone camera that beams images directly into your eyes? The FLYBi drone https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/advancerobotix/flybi-first-drone-with-virtual-reality-goggles/description comes with a pair of virtual reality goggles, so you can get first person video from the drone. There's also a regular remote with a screen built-in, so you can learn to fly properly before you take your eyes off the controls, or one of your friends could fly the drone for you. The goggles also track head movement, and can use that to orient the drone camera, so you literally look around from the drone's point of view. According to the Kickstarter page, there is an object avoidance system built into the drone, so even if you're not watching where you're going, you should be able to pilot the drone safely, and it uses radio frequency to transmit the video to your headset, which means you can take it well past Wi-Fi range. A companion app allows you to stream your footage as well, and this means that you can livestream your app footage while the drone is up in the air. The camera gimbal is limited to 55-degrees, which will allow you to look around without losing track of the motion - this will help with motion sickness, and also keep you from flying off into the wrong direction. The built in camera films 1080p video, and can also take 12megapixel photos. http://gadgets.ndtv.com/others/news/the-flybi-drone-with-vr-goggles-gives-you-a-birds-eye-view-of-the-world-779185?site=classic Return to Top Using Drones as a Solar PV Operations and Maintenance Tool EPRI conducted a comprehensive literature review and interviewed asset owners, O&M service providers, and UAS developers/service providers to learn more about UAS as an effective PV O&M tool. Accelerating deployments of solar photovoltaics (PV) around the world are placing increasing emphasis on cost-effective operations and maintenance (O&M) practices that can enhance lifecycle plant economics. Particularly for large utility-scale systems—which comprise approximately 45% of global cumulative installations and can exceed several hundred MW, spanning tens of thousands of modules and thousands of acres—a range of targeted, streamlined, and automated preventative maintenance activities are being explored for their cost-benefit returns. One such approach under investigation by utilities, asset owners, and O&M service providers is the use of Unmanned Aircraft System, or UAS. These devices can currently perform a variety of PV-related tasks, including visual imaging (of modules, wiring, and other plant components), infrared thermography, and vegetation monitoring that have the potential to update largely manual conventional processes and more efficiently identify and diagnose PV system performance issues. Moreover, future UAS capabilities, such as data analytics through pattern recognition and change detection, offer greater potential economic upside by introducing predictive methods for gauging plant health and optimizing strategic O&M responses. Given falling system costs and technical advancements, aerial robotics offer broad potential benefits both for PV O&M and other applications. (Read full article from EPRI: "Utilitizing Unmanned Aircraft Systems as a Solar Photovoltaics Operations and Maintence Tool".) http://tdworld.com/site-files/tdworld.com/files/uploads/2015/06/epriuav.pdf http://m.tdworld.com/generation-renewables/using-drones-solar-pv-operations-and-maintenance-tool Return to Top Precise Localization of a UAV using visual odometry Within the AEROWORKS group at the UT we are researching aerial manipulation. The manipulators we develop have to be tested on a UAV. Indoors we can fly using the OptiTrack motion capturing system. This project focuses on creating a setup which enables us to experiment with aerial manipulation in an outdoor environment. Precise localization is necessary to perform the aerial manipulation tasks. GPS doesn't offer enough precision for these tasks. We aim at using stereo vision to observe the environment and localize the UAV since cameras provide a lot of information about the environment whilst being light-weight and compact. The VI-sensor used in this project combines a stereo camera with an IMU. Visual odometry is the process of obtaining motion from camera images. These measurements are fused with the IMU measurements to obtain a high-bandwidth pose of the VI-sensor. A working setup with a hexacopter carrying a VI-sensor has been created which can fly using the pose estimation obtained by visual odometry. https://www.ce.utwente.nl/calendar/details/precise-localization-of-a-uav-using-visual-odometry.html Return to Top Twitter Patent for Drone With drones becoming more advanced, more numerous and more mainstream, you have to wonder why we have yet to see an implementation of the technology like Back to the Future’s HoverCam. The HoverCam was used as a paparazzi photo-snapping godsend for lazy reporters who didn’t want to venture into the world themselves. Here’s a quick look at how it appeared in the movie: It may be closer to reality than you think: Twitter’s latest patent http://appft1.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PG01&p=1&u=/netahtml/PTO/srchnum.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=20150362917.PGNR tells of a live video drone that can be controlled remotely through a messaging system for purposes that include, “telepresence or interview functionality.” The commands would be used to manipulate elements such as the drone’s position, camera zoom level, focus, and even a lighting system. It’d have a microphone, a speaker and a display of its own, too, so a remote reporter could appear to be at the scene. The video feed can be transmitted back to a client — whether that’s a public video stream (Periscope) or something only the drone’s controller has access to — in real time. Here’s how the company describes the idea in their patent filing: An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) carries a camera, sends data from the camera, and receives  commands. The UAV is connected to a messaging platform. Pictures or video clips received from the UAV are selected and placed in messages broadcast by an account associated with the UAV. Video footage from the camera is live-streamed in a card-type message. Account holders of the messaging platform may control the UAV with commands embedded in messages and directed towards an account associated with the UAV. Controllable elements of the UAV include UAV location, camera orientation, camera subject, UAV-mounted lighting, a UAV-mounted display, a UAV-mounted projector, UAV-mounted speakers, and a detachable payload. UAV control may be determined through democratic means. Some UAV functionality may be triggered through aggregated engagements on the messaging platform. The UAV may include a display screen and/or a microphone to provide for telepresence or interview functionality. It doesn’t sound like anything far outside the realm of ordinary — it’s essentially a flying smartphone connected to the internet — but in practice it could potentially change the face of on-scene reporting, among other things. With some ingenuity, perhaps it could even help you walk your dog without having to leave the house: So what benefits could this even have for news coverage that your typical cameraman + mic-wielding reporter combo doesn’t already deliver? More interesting viewing angles, for starters. We obviously have a long way to go before drones are capable of the sort of smooth and finesse movements required to have one of these flying around in a crowd of people unattended (some are claiming to be working on the next big breakthrough http://phandroid.com/2015/12/07/fleye-kickstarter/ at least), but the fact that someone is thinking about the basic platforms and systems is a sure sign that we’ll get these once-fictional ideas into actual reality in the very near future. http://phandroid.com/2015/12/21/twitter-hovercam-drone/ Return to Top VM-aware storage speeds drone training Attempts to train the men and women who pilot unmanned aerial systems can be challenging if user interfaces and software programs time out. And that’s what happened at the Army’s Joint Systems Integration Laboratory when trainees’ virtual machines were not able to write image and code files back and forth to the VMware cloud fast enough. The storage-area network the lab was using was built for capacity, rather than speed. The key issue was that it would take too long for files to be sent from the zero client to the server and then back to the zero client, said Rory Hamaker, a lead systems administrator and infrastructure architect for Ameritech/SED, the civilian contractor agency that provides IT services to the JSIL. “When vCenter [server] detects that it’s not getting a fast enough connection back to the storage, it’ll just disconnect the user that’s attached,” he said. That unpredictability meant that sometimes as few as two to three operators could be trained at once, Hamaker said -- and capacity was always capped at a few dozen concurrent users.VMs on the older, traditional systems were taking too long to spin up the 7200-rpm storage disks, and training exercises were timing out -- causing unacceptable delays in classes. “As far as [UAS trainees are] concerned, it’s like a Windows 7 desktop,” Hamaker said. The system works with two pieces of software, he explained: one that controls the simulation and is essentially the same piece of software used to fly a real UAS, and another piece to display the graphics. Hamaker said performance increased almost immediately after installing the Trinti storage: “We obtained a 220 percent speed increase in our disk I/O environment and at least 100 percent improvements on all of the other tests.” And perhaps the best news for administrators: no more complaints about performance. This solution also gave administrators better analytical and management tools. “We can manage each individual VM and isolate that VM and guarantee the performance of that VM without it bleeding over into other VMs that are running,” Billingsley explained, adding that this allows administrators to more easily determine if there is a bottleneck in the system and where it might be located. https://gcn.com/Articles/2015/12/21/UAS-training-VM.aspx?m=1 Return to Top New drone flight training school The Kentucky Innovation Network at Morehead State University is partnering with Unmanned Services Inc. to create a drone flight training school. As drone technology becomes more accessible for commercial and private use, safe and legal flight operations will be paramount as the industry grows. The flight school is designed to provide technical drone education and instruction to government and private entities at a low cost and help foster an unmanned aerial service sector in Kentucky. “Drones are expected to be a billion ­dollar industry, soon, and this training school will help give Kentucky pilots an edge over future regional operators,” said Unmanned Services Inc. president Mickey Marotta. “But for current and future drone companies to be successful, every pilot has to fly safely and by the rules.” The Kentucky Innovation Network at Morehead State University will serve as the title sponsor of the training school and will work to find a suitable venue for the school and assist marketing and recruitment. Pilots and executives from Unmanned Services Inc., a Lexington  based, FAA  certified commercial drone service provider, will engineer the educational and operational components of the course. Students will prepare for the FAA UAS Ground School Test and will receive instruction from commercial  rated pilots on aircraft maintenance and flight operations programs. Courses will be taught in a lab environment featuring unmanned aircraft simulators and systems equipped with cameras and other payloads for training aids. Future pilots will be trained in a variety of relevant topics, from regulations and navigation to commercial applications. “There isn’t an industry out there that can’t benefit from drone technology: real estate, agriculture, media, utilities, transportation,” Marotta said. “All of these sectors can become more efficient and profitable utilizing drone technology, but that potential can’t be realized without professionally trained pilots.” For more information on the Unmanned Aircraft Systems Grounds School, call the Kentucky Innovation Network at Morehead State University at (606) 783 -9536. http://www.lanereport.com/57950/2015/12/new-drone-flight-training-school-to-begin-offering-courses-in-march-2016/ Return to Top FLYPRO Launches First Smart Watch Drone with Auto Follow and Obstacle Avoidance Features FLYPRO Aerospace Tech Co., Ltd (FLYPRO) has officially released the XEagle, the world's first unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) equipped with auto follow and obstacle avoidance functions. Unlike other popular self-flying drone models on the market that are taken off by throwing the aircrafts in the air, which increases the risks of crashing the vehicles, XEagle introduces various features including voice control, smartwatch and automatic obstacle avoiding to offer a better user experience. This is the first time smart watch technology is applied in UAV design. By liberating both hands, users do not need to have any previous knowledge and experience when handling an XEagle. Designed for recording sports activities, FLYPRO has replaced the traditional UAV remote controllers with XWatch for the new XEagle, a smart watch designed to control XEagle aircraft that's portable and easy to navigate, users can control the devices to take off, land, follow as well as adjust flight height with just one click on the wrist within 300 meters. The smart watch design enables users to fly the aerial vehicles to take high definition pictures and videos while engaging in intense sports such as skiing and mountain bike cycling. The voice control feature allows hobbyists to fly the XEagle without moving their hands at all - the built-in intelligent voice recognition system responses fast and accurately to commands in both Chinese and English. Users only need to instruct the XEagle with commands such as "FLYPRO, take off" and "FLYPRO, follow me" to launch the XEagle in the air and have it follow automatically. To lower the risk of crashing the UAV in both takeoff time and during flight, XEagle offers a worry-free crash prevention solution by installing four layers of protection. With an infrared obstacle avoidance system and built-in photoelectric sensors, the XEagle can calculate precisely and in real time for obstacles to avoid collisions. The detection is effective when the obstacle is at the distance between 0.1 to 15 meters with relative velocity of 12 meters per second. The UAV can dodge obstacles and barriers while flying in the air by changing its flight path automatically. http://news.sys-con.com/node/3592110 Return to Top COUNTER UAS: Catch a drone for cash A small drone approaches a future public gathering, operator and intent unknown. It is well inside the boundary of an active flight restriction, and it is making a beeline for the crowd. If you can conceive of and build the system that is ready to swing into action at that future moment, and bring the drone down in one piece (more or less), you could win up to $100,000. “With any payload still intact” are the operative words that make this a greater challenge than it might at first appear. Bullets (or other projectiles), lasers, and explosives will not get you past the initial screening and on the way to a fresh $100,000 in your pocket, alas. Cashing in on all of that may require a combination of technologies and approaches, and MITRE Corp. has deliberately avoided describing any particular approach. The inbound drone (weighing up to 5 pounds) must be intercepted, controlled, and brought to a designated safe location. This requires taking control of the offending aircraft by some means. “That can be a graceful take control or it can be a more aggressive, forceful” approach, said Michael Balazs, a MITRE technology integrator whose desk your ideas will cross on the way to the cash prizes. The MITRE Challenge requirements, detailed online, are specific enough to preclude many anti-drone measures already developed. Shotguns, a popular choice of privacy-conscious residents of rural areas, are off the list of possible options. It is “all about bringing it down safely, and in a controlled manner,” Balazs noted. An explanatory note for those unfamiliar with MITRE: It is a nonprofit corporation dedicated to operating government-sponsored research and development centers. MITRE supports a range of science and engineering efforts, and has no commercial interest in intellectual property or profit. In other words, you can share your drone interdiction ideas with them without fear they will run to the nearest patent office and claim them as their own. White papers and signed participant agreements are due Feb. 7, 2016, and the specifications and submission addresses are posted online. Before your sharpen your pencils, a few more words on the challenge itself: The $100,000 purse is split into separate awards of $60,000 for the best “end-to-end system,” $20,000 for the best detection system, and $20,000 for the best interdiction system. A single participant could win all three. Those who make the first cut will be invited to a “technical exchange event” with federal officials, where participants can discuss their proposals with those officials and get feedback on capabilities, giving participants a better understanding of what the government seeks. “One of the other roles that MITRE plays very well is that we try to bring government and industry together,” Rotner said. Many levels of government are interested. The U.S. Secret Service would surely love a way to prevent further incursions on the White House grounds, to name just one federal agency with a mission to protect. Lawmakers in many states are considering legislation to impose jail time and stiffer fines for drone misconduct; California lawmakers, responding to reports of unmanned aircraft interfering with efforts to fight wildfires, considered legislation in the summer to legalize electronic jamming technology though federal laws and regulations, particularly FCC regulations, make that problematic. The FCC is not fond of jamming airwaves, and not all unmanned aircraft will respond the same way to jamming, anyway. Some might land immediately; others might fly back to where they started, depending on factory programming and even user-selected preferences. Overriding the remote control instructions to electronically take full control of a drone poses other challenges, too. Flight control systems, communication protocols, frequencies, and other factors vary among manufacturers, to say nothing of custom-built rigs assembled by the user from parts purchased online or at a hobby shop. And before control can be attempted, there’s the problem of detecting an object that can be the size of a dinner plate or smaller, moving at potentially high speed, arriving from any direction. Other requirements of the MITRE Challenge: The system (or approach, to be more general) must be affordable, legal to use, technologically scalable (positioned to keep up as drone evil-doers get wise to it), and be “innovative, offering unique ideas and/or additional value, such as the ability to identify the operator of a threatening aircraft,” MITRE notes online. It is possible that all the best minds who set to work on this will not come up with a workable solution, Rotner noted. And that is not necessarily a loss from MITRE’s point of view. Rotner said knowledge gained from even a failed attempt “could inform future policy making. We don’t need a perfect solution. We want to be able to accurately represent the current landscape.” Balazs noted that future drone control systems operated over cellular or other networks could make the technical challenge far greater. “That’s why we’re trying to get ahead of the game now.” White papers received by Feb. 7 will be scored on how well they meet the basic requirements, and MITRE will then ask selected submitters to produce a video, with a deadline probably falling in April, that demonstrates the idea “beyond paper.” That will be followed in the fall by a live test of the system, with MITRE staff flying the “bad drones” and selected individuals or teams doing their best to detect and interdict. The clock is ticking. The days of outlaw drones may be numbered. http://www.aopa.org/News-and-Video/All-News/2015/December/09/Catch-a-drone-for-cash?WT.mc_id=151211epilot&WT.mc_sect=tec Return to Top DHS: Drug Traffickers Are Spoofing Border Drones The drug cartels aren’t just buying golden Uzis http://thefirearmreport.com/2013/09/chapo-guzmans-uzi-for-sale/  anymore. As the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency, or CBP, has upped its drone patrols along America’s Mexican border, narcotics traffickers have responded with expensive technology of their own. “The bad guys on the border have lots of money and what they are putting money into is into spoofing and jamming GPS systems. We’re funding some advances so we can counter this,” said Timothy Bennett, a science-and-technology program manager at the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees CBP. Those bad guys aren’t ISIS, just traffickers, Bennett said on Dec. 16 at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “It’s more about trafficking drugs and people,” he told Defense One. “We know who’s over there. We can guess who’s doing it.” “The manufactures know it’s an issue. They’re not going to advertise it as an issue. It becomes cost-prohibitive. They’re not going to, all of a sudden, put it in their aircraft because it does drive the price up,” Michael Buscher, CEO of Vanguard Defense Industries. Vanguard makes a drone called the ShadowHawk, a popular purchase among local police forces near the border. Buscher couldn’t say how many CPB units or border law enforcement agencies do use the drones, citing non-disclosure agreements, but it was among the first UAVs http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2012/04/look-to-the-skies-is-it-time-to-stop-worrying-and-love-the-drone/ to be approved for purchase with DHS grant funds, including in border areas. “It’s the spoofing that’s bad. That we’ve got to look into. They can make you think you are someone else,” Bennett said. “For small [UAVs], it’s a bigger deal. They can’t do the secure GPS. There are a lot of anti-jamming systems right now that can detect it but they’re big and heavy. So you’ve got something that weighs 25 pounds, you add five pounds, and it affects its payload or it affects its duration. So the big thing now is getting that [detection] capability on these small ones in a way that doesn’t add weight to it.” DHS was unable to say just how often smugglers tried to jam or spoof border-watching UAVs. But Bennett said the attacks are hindering law enforcement abilities to map drug routes. “You’re out there looking, trying to find out this path [they’re] going through with drugs, and we can’t get good coordinate systems on it because we’re getting spoofed. That screws up the whole thing. We got to fix that problem,” he said. Debugging DHS Drones Spoofing is far from the only problem facing Department of Homeland Security and the way it gets drones to the border. In addition to giving grants to law enforcement agencies to purchase UAVs, DHS also has many of its own. “CBP has invested significant funds in a program that has not achieved the expected results, and it cannot demonstrate how much the program has improved border security. The $443 million CBP plans to spend on program expansion could be put to better use by investing in alternatives,” the audit concluded. “It’s a horrible solution,” he said of the Reaper purchase. “We worked diligently to prevent that purchase on the part of DHS.” It may be one reason why DHS is now emphasizing smaller drones. They’re cheaper and easier to use, but also, potentially, more vulnerable. Today, the drone grants that DHS is awarding to law enforcement agencies, while smaller than the Reaper, aren’t large to enough to buy the sorts of UAVs that can withstand penetration and spoofing attempts. “We’ll have departments call us and say, ‘Hey, we got a DHS grant for a drone: $25,000.’ [But] our cost starts at $120,000 just for the cameras. The grants that [DHS] is providing, it’s setting them up for failure … what they can purchase with it is susceptible … limited in range and capability.” DHS is also funding new research and development to improve its border monitoring drones. The agency wants UAVs that can detect motion, then decide whether to alert a sensor operator, potentially cutting down on operator costs. “The big thing for air and marine CBP in general is detecting motion on the ground. We’re helping fund moving target indicator systems in the MQ-9 and others so that they will be able to see … a man on the ground, follow them,” Bennett said. The report also says that privacy concerns may curtail the use of drones over U.S. soil. “Already we’ve seen companies selling persistent surveillance, wide area surveillance solutions,” Jay Stanley, a senior policy analyst from the American Civil Liberties Union, said at the CSIS event. “Mass surveillance by use of drones is both something very far away but also very near … The technology will move very quickly.” http://www.defenseone.com/technology/2015/12/DHS-Drug-Traffickers-Spoofing-Border-Drones/124613/ Return to Top Drone-jamming equipment to be deployed at public events A device to block drones flown by terrorists will be used at major public and sports events following a successful trial at London’s Remembrance Sunday parade. The system was installed on the roof of Scotland Yard, close to where the commemoration took place – the first time it has been deployed by police in the UK. The equipment, designed and built by a British consortium, can detect, track and intercept small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) flown by enemies – potentially saving hundreds of lives. A device to block drones flown by terrorists will be used at major public and sports events following a successful trial at London’s Remembrance Sunday parade. The device was trialed amid mounting concern that terrorists could use drones to launch attacks using explosives or chemical or biological material. The Anti-UAV Defense System is now likely to be deployed to help protect troops on military parades, world leaders at conferences, and other events with large crowds. The £700,000 device could even be used to defend critical infrastructure such as nuclear power plants, borders and other buildings of national importance. Following the success on Remembrance Sunday, a source said: ‘The Met really liked how the trial went and it worked with the rest of the security operation.’ The system was installed on the roof of Scotland Yard, close to where the commemoration took place – the first time it has been deployed by police in the UK Separately, each piece of technology has been used by the British military on the battlefield to prevent insurgent attacks, including the threat of buried bombs. But the new system is the first to incorporate all three. The aim is to stop extremists, spies and smugglers maliciously using drones which can be bought for as little as a few hundred pounds. The portable system can spot small, slow-moving drones up to four miles away using radar. A military-grade camera then tracks it before jamming the radio signals that control it, making it impossible to fly. The whole process can take as little as 15 seconds. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3375753/Drone-jamming-equipment-deployed-public-events-stop-terrorists-using-cheap-unmanned-aircraft-killer-attacks.html Return to Top INTERNATIONAL: Russian defense minister: Syria operation shows drones are irreplaceable The number of modern unmanned aerial vehicles in the Russian army has increased to 1,720 in 2015 from just 180 drone aircraft in 2011 . The military operation in Syria has shown that unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) or drones are irreplaceable in modern warfare, Russian Defense Minister General of the Army Sergey Shoigu told a concluding Russian Defense Ministry board meeting on Friday. "A leap forward has been made in the development of unmanned aviation. The experience of fulfilling combat tasks in Syria has shown that they (UAV) are irreplaceable in military hostilities," the minister said adding that the number of modern UAVs in the Russian army has increased to 1,720 in 2015 from just 180 drone aircraft in 2011. http://tass.ru/en/defense/843383 Return to Top COMMENTARY: United Nations Seeks to Head off Rise of Killer Robots Pentagon plans envisioning smart, autonomous weapons able to instantly react and respond to combat situations may run up against a proposed United Nations ban on lethal autonomous weapons systems. The UN is hoping to head off autonomous killing systems before countries begin making them part of their arsenals, though the US, Russia and others appear to be in no hurry to slow the advance of killer robots. Just last week Deputy Defense Secretary Bob Work told a national defense forum in Washington, D.C., that a strong deterrence strategy in the future will depend partly on having weapons systems that "learn" in real-time and operate autonomously. Automated battle networks boosted by advances in computing power and network attacks already has combat operations moving at cyber speed, Work said. "This trend is only going to continue as advanced militaries experiment with these technologies, as well as others like hypersonics," he said. "In the not-too-distant future, we'll see directed energy weapons on the battlefield which operate at the speed of light." But the UN is hoping to head off autonomous killing systems before countries begin making them part of their arsenals. When UN delegates met in Geneva in April to discuss a proposed LAWS convention, the head of the American delegation said the US believes that "a robust policy process and methodology can help mitigate risk when developing new weapon systems." "We would like to make clear that the Directive does not establish a US position on the potential future development of [LAWS] -- it neither encourages nor prohibits the development of such future systems." During a meeting on LAWS in October, the US called it premature to consider a ban on LAWS and reiterated that it neither encourages nor prohibits the development of such weapons, according to Campaign to Stop Killer Robots, a group made up of nine human rights and peace organizations. "And [Gerasimov] said -- and I quote -- 'In the near future, it is possible that a fully roboticized unit will be created, capable of independently conducting military operations'," Work said. http://www.military.com/daily-news/2015/12/20/united-nations-seeks-to-head-off-rise-of-killer-robots.html Return to Top Drone regulations should be considered for use now and in the future The demand for recreational drones grew shockingly fast this year, catching much of the country unaware — and unprepared. Once the price for a camera-equipped quadcopter dropped below $100, the aerial robots started flying off the shelves. Seemingly overnight, every major retailer had a drone model for sale. Even Macy's. The allure of recreational drones (formally known as unmanned aircraft systems) is that they use sophisticated technology that requires little or no training to operate. Not surprisingly, as sales climbed, so did the reports of mishaps and disruption. Out of control personal drones crashed into things and people — including a baby girl in a stroller who was hit by a 6-pound drone in September while her mother pushed her along a Pasadena street. In the U.S., amateur operators blundered into restricted airspace with terrifying regularity, coming too close to passenger airplanes and disrupting aerial firefighting operations. In October, a drone hit power lines in West Hollywood, knocking out power to hundreds of people. “Right now, commercial drone operators must have a pilot's license to fly, while recreational ones aren't even required to read the manual. That has to change. Local, state and federal authorities have responded with regulations aimed at keeping drones from being a dangerous nuisance. It's good they are now paying attention. About 400,000 drones are expected to be sold in the U.S. this holiday season, more than half of all the drones that will be sold all year. Next year is expected to be an even bigger one for recreational drone sales. That's reason enough for regulation, but unmanned aircraft technology is not a fad that will cool off once every household has a personal drone parked in the garage. Businesses are dying to use drones and will do so in a big way as soon as the Federal Aviation Administration lifts its blanket ban on commercial drone use and releases new rules next year. Currently, the FAA allows such uses only if the drone operator has a special permit. About 2,500 of those permits have been issued; tellingly, all but a few of them have been issued this year. Meanwhile, Amazon, Google X and other companies are planning to use drones for package delivery as soon as 2017 — an advancement that would require a system of low-altitude highways for unmanned aircraft through every state and community. A video released by Amazon recently shows a Prime Air delivery drone flying between 200 and 400 feet above the ground — a place that until now humanity has left mainly to the birds. The immediate need is to craft reasonable rules to rein in the mass of recreational drones. The FAA and industry executives are developing a registration system that could help identify the owners of wayward drones. That's good, but not enough. The feds must also consider requiring the operators of heavier drones to be trained and certified. Right now, commercial drone operators must have a pilot's certificate to fly, while recreational ones aren't even required to read the manual. That has to change. These may be toys, but they are large enough to stop a firefighting operation and inflict an injury. Congress should also support a proposal by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) to require drone manufacturers to install GPS-based geofencing technology to stop drones from operating in restricted areas and flying higher than permitted. It would address the biggest public safety threats of recreational drones: running into planes, crashing into crowded events or delivering weapons and drugs to prison yards. (Yes, that has happened.) Drone manufacturer DJI installs geofencing in its popular commercial drones. The company plans to upgrade this feature next year so that qualified users can unlock the default geofencing and self certify to fly in some restricted areas. This approach would accommodate expert operators while creating a paper trail and accountability should something go wrong. This could be a model for the entire industry. State and local officials need to start outlining rules for where and how people can operate drones, taking care not to overstep their authority or give in to headline-induced hysteria. In 2015, after several highly publicized mishaps, California lawmakers rushed in with a number of drone bills. Gov. Jerry Brown vetoed them. He had sound reasons: The bills tried to regulate airspace, over which the FAA has sole jurisdiction, or they opened up recreational users to unreasonable lawsuits. The challenge for California and other states in 2016 is to write regulations that balance public safety against the numerous benefits of drones, while laying the groundwork for incorporating this technology in its future iterations into daily life. Banning drones outright shouldn't be an option. In coming months, the National Conference of State Legislatures will release a set of best practices to help guide states as they regulate drone use. That's a good place for lawmakers to start. Cities and communities, meanwhile, would be smart to identify where they'd like residents to operate or not operate drones, then develop “drone zones.”  Meanwhile, the discussion should begin now about the bigger questions raised by the generations of drones to come. Are existing privacy laws sufficient for this new technology? How do we manage low-altitude traffic so that the space above our roofs doesn't turn into a robot-choked mess? How will sky highways affect birds and wildlife? Are drones that carry humans coming next? The first wave of drones hit with little warning. Let's be prepared for the next one. http://www.latimes.com/opinion/editorials/la-ed-adv-drone-regulation-20151213-story.html Return to Top