https://www.robinradar.com/files/robinradar-brchr-dronedetectie-jan-2018.pdf
ELVIRA® DRONEDETECTIONRADARRobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   111-01-18   08:11RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   211-01-18   08:11Drones are increasingly becoming wide spread. They’ve become affordable, easy to obtain and simple to fly. This creates new opportunities, but also poses new threats. To mitigate the negative impact of drones on our society, there is a need for both the detection and intervention of the increasing number of small drones in our immediate airspace. MEETING TODAY’S CHALLENGESRobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   311-01-18   08:11Near misses and collisionsbetween planes and dronesat AIRPORTSDrones that causedisturbance atpublic EVENTSRobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   411-01-18   08:11Drones used toimport weaponsand drugs intoPRISONSDrones used to study or damage CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURERobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   511-01-18   08:11INTRODUCINGELVIRA®The ability to detect drones kilometres away in the distance is not enough. ‘ELVIRA®’ is Robin Radar Systems’ purpose built Drone Detection Radar, specifi cally designed to meet these challenges. Drone detection systems need to maintain their capabilities under low visibility conditions and in urban environments full of obstacles and moving objects. Drones can be pre-programmed for autonomous fl ight without an operator, and can approach in swarms. Hence the technology should be capable of detecting multiple targets simultaneously, and be independent from active radio control. Last but not least, the system needs to distinguish drones from other moving objects, such as birds, in order to prevent false alarms. ELVIRA® combines smart software with affordable radar, specifi cally built for drone detection and tracking. In doing so, Robin Radar Systems has achieved a capability and price level that meets the needs of the professional security market on a global scale. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   611-01-18   08:11ELVIRA®’S UNIQUE CAPABILITIESAutomatic Drone ClassificationYou want to detect and track drones - small objects which traditional radar can’t see. And even if you’ve managed to find a radar which can see small objects, it’s unlikely it can tell birds apart from drones. At Robin Radar Systems, we’ve specialised in detecting and tracking small objects for 33 years. Birds actually. And even though we started with tracking birds, we validated our data with drones, in order to prove our radar tracking accuracy. So we’re in a unique position, with a wealth of experience, to detect, track, and classify (read separate) birds from drones. And that’s exactly what we’ve built ELVIRA® to do. Where most other radars don’t provide classification of birds and drones, providing a high operator-workload, ELVIRA® does that for you, automatically. So you can concentrate on what action to take about the unauthorised drone in your airspace. Unlimited 360º CoverageELVIRA® covers a full 360 degrees and comes with a standard instrumented range of five kilometres. It can detect larger fixed wing targets at a range of up to nine kilometres (extended instrumented range), with smaller multi-rotor drones detected at up to three kilometres. Completely securing an area though, relies on more than just range detection. It requires flexibility and reliability. ELVIRA® provides unlimited coverage by combining multiple radar devices into an integrated sensor network. The output from multiple radars is incorporated into one unambiguous picture, meaning a single drone causes a single alarm. You won’t have multiple confusing alarms being created for a single drone being tracked by several radars. AffordableRadars are expensive. And military radars are seriously expensive. Don’t expect to receive much pocket change from a million Euros when purchasing a military radar re-purposed to do drone detection. And by the way, you probably shouldn’t be expecting it to classify drones separately from birds either. But it doesn’t need to be that way. In much the same way that drone technology itself has recently become affordable and accessible, we’ve combined affordable hardware, with extremely smart software, to provide you with a military drone detection and tracking capability, at a fraction of the cost of a military system. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   711-01-18   08:11ADVANTAGES OF USING RADARSurveillance by humans and optical systems has advantages, but is also limited by range and visual conditions. That’s why effective drone detection systems utilise radar. Radar can detect multiple targets simultaneously, also under low visibility conditions. Since radar doesn’t depend on signals transmitted by drones, it’s also able to detect autonomous drones, whereas other sensors may only detect radio transmissions from remote controlled drones. Radar is also a precision tool, allowing you to see exactly where the drone is in real-time, as well as where it’s been. Knowing exactly where the drone is in real-time is important in case you’re integrating other sensors and mitigation effectors, like cameras, jamming devices, lasers, spoofers, protocol manipulators, etc. CharacteristicsRangePosition AccuracyClassifi cation Autonomous TargetsMultiple TargetsLow Visibility ConditionsPrice✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱✱ ✱✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱✔✔✔✔✘✘✘✔✔✔✘✘✔✔✔✱ ✱ ✱ ✱✱✱ ✱ ✱✱ ✱✱ ✱ ✱HumansurveillancePassive Electro-Optical/InfraredAcousticsdohteMno itceteDActive RadarRadio Frequency (RF) Detection/FindingRobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   811-01-18   08:11SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS  FMCW Radar (Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave)9650 MHz (X-Band) 4W / 36dBm 5km 3km SpecificationsTechnology   Frequency  Power Output  Instrumented Range  Detection Range 3kg Drone  Classification Range 3kg Drone   1,100m Main Antenna Beam Width  10º x 10ºAzimuth Resolution  1ºRange Resolution  3.2m Azimuth Coverage  360ºElevation Coverage  10º (-5º to +17º adjustable) Track While Scan  Yes Rotation/Scan Speed  45rpm / 1.3s for 360ºClassification Method  Micro-Doppler Dimensions  900mm diameter, 1000mm height Weight  82kg Power  230VAC, 50Hz, max. 3A / 24VDC Communication  Ethernet, 1000Base-T Ingress Protection  IP53 Operational Humidity  95% Operational Temperature  -20ºC to +40ºC Storage/Transport Humidity  95% Storage/Transport Temperature   -30ºC to +60ºC RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   911-01-18   08:11FLEXIBLEINTERFACESRobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1011-01-18   08:11Actionable Information with Early Warning and Classifi cation… in One SensorFor early warning of incoming drones you need radar. Simply put, no other sensor technology has as a wider coverage area than radar. ELVIRA® provides early warning of approaching targets giving you time to react. Classifying, and most importantly, differentiating, between drones and birds or other moving objects, is a critical feature in preventing false positives. Whereas other systems require a combination of multiple sensors to go from detection to classifi cation of targets, ELVIRA® combines detection and classifi cation in a single sensor. This saves precious time in the decision making process. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1111-01-18   08:11Drones in 60 SecondsCustomise Your Own Alarm ZonesOur ELVIRA® Radar is so easy to set-up and use that you’ll be detecting and tracking drones within minutes. When integrated onto a vehicle, like our demo vehicle (pictured), you too can be detecting drones in 60 seconds. Simple and Intuitive Map-Based InterfaceELVIRA®’s map-based interface is comprised of colour coded tracks. Red tracks indicate drones and their fl ight path. Orange tracks represent suspected drones. Green tracks represent birds and other moving targets. All track types can be toggled on and off, and the track visualisations and colours are all user confi gurable. Google Earth imagery is used as background mapping as standard, and is automatically downloaded when connected to the Internet. As a user, you can defi ne virtual zones depending on your own special use-cases. You can cause both visual and acoustic alarms to be triggered when a drone is detected and classifi ed. And for the more complex environments or scenarios, you can also trigger alarms only when a drone enters a specifi c alarm area, which you defi ne by yourself. Also, for the cases where you have deployed your own drones, you can defi ne safe zones, where drone detections will not cause alarms. Remote diagnosticsThe system’s performance can be monitored from a remote location. If something is not working properly, technical staff can immediately log into the system, perform diagnostics and in most cases, solve it remotely. Live Stream All Tracks and Alarms to Your External Security and Command & Control (C2) Systems Record all dataIntegrate ELVIRA®’s tracks and alarms as a layer in your own existing, or 3rd party, security systems and Command and Control (C2) Systems. A simple XML broadcast based interface is included with ELVIRA® as standard. Other protocols, e.g. ASTERIX, are available on request. To enable case evaluation, all tracks and alarms are stored in a spatial SQL database. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1211-01-18   08:11ELVIRA® is Camera Ready: Easily Add the PTZ Camera System of Your Choice The radar’s micro-Doppler capability provides the necessary confi rmation that a target has mechanical propulsion. Users typically require a visual picture of the target in order to take further action. ELVIRA® can be equipped with a high-resolution pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) camera for visual confi rmation of the target. When a drone is detected, the camera zooms into its direction for a controller to acquire an image and report details. Looking for that ‘Silver Bullet’? Too bad… We hate to disappoint you, but there really is no ‘silver bullet’. Counter-drone solutions differ per case and require integration of various systems and technologies. We believe in the power of cooperation between companies, based on integration of modular systems. ELVIRA® isdesigned to be the preferred primary radar within a ‘system of systems’. Ready for integration with other detection systems, existing command centres and new forms of intervention. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1311-01-18   08:12SYSTEM INTEGRATORS: WE’RE TALKING TO YOUOur CEO, Siete Hamminga, put’s it like this:“The line between competitors and partners is very thin. I’m an optimist, and I believe in the power of collaboration and cooperation. People often describe companies like ours as being fast moving, innovative and agile. Large system integrators on the other hand, are sometimes compared with oil tankers; large and slow, difﬁ cult to adapt and change direction. But I see large companies more as aircraft carriers; they have global reach and war power, carrying fast reaction ﬁ ghter jets and helicopters. We’re like the fast reacting ﬁ ghter jets. And we’re looking for aircraft carriers with global reach to take us to battle.”We know we provide one piece of the puzzle with ELVIRA® (well four actually): detection, tracking, classifi cation and automatic alarming. And we know that users want a fully integrated solution, which can also intervene, to mitigate, displace, or remove the drone threat. It’s also sensible to have multiple technology types, to build in redundancy, and to provide additional verifi cation and confi rmation of the threat. Our goal here at Robin Radar Systems is to build the most capable, and affordable, drone detection and tracking radar in the world. And we do that by focusing solely on our radar solutions. Acting as system integrators ourselves would only distract us from our goal of being technology leader in drone detection and tracking radars. So that’s where you come in. If you’re a system integrator with:•  access to the market;•  counter-drone as a strategic topic; and •  an ability to integrate and build a modular and holistic counter-drone system…then we want to work with you! RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1411-01-18   08:12Robin Radar Systems develops radar systems that are specifi cally designed to track small objects. We do that by combining affordable sensors with smart software. Robin systems are used by military and civil airports to prevent collisions between birds and planes. Ecologists and Energy companies use Robin systems to assess and mitigate the environmental impact of wind farms on birds. ABOUTROBINRobin originated as a project within the Dutch Research Institute for Applied Science (TNO). In cooperation with the Royal Dutch Air Force and later the European Space Agency (ESA), they started developing unique algorithms to use radar to detect birds. The company was spun out of TNO in 2010. In 2012 two funds invested in Robin Radar; Inkef Capital and Mainport Innovation Fund. Inkef Capital is a 100% daughter of ABP, one of the largest pension funds in the world. Mainport Innovation Fund comprises of KLM, Schiphol Airport, Delft University and the Rabobank. Number one after Nuclear Security SummitIn preparation for the Nuclear Security Summit in 2014, government agencies considered threats posed by Micro and Mini UAS or ‘drones’. Numerous technologies were tested. None of them were able to detect drones in a suffi cient way. The few military systems that were able to detect drones at all, showed diffi culties with urban environments and provided false alarms because they were unable to distinguish drones from birds. As a result, the Dutch Ministry of Justice openly challenged the industry to offer solutions for detection and elimination of drones. 38 companies responded. Robin Radar Systems ranked #1 and received a contract to further develop its technology. G7 and G20 Security Services Choose Robin Radar Systems’ Elvira®Security Services at the G7 and G20 Summits have used ELVIRA® to protect world leaders against unauthorised drones. Amongst others, ELVIRA® has been integrated in combination with systems developed by the German fi rms, ESG and Diehl Defence. RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1511-01-18   08:12 ELVIRA® Drone Detection Radar is a product by:Robin Radar Systems BVMercuriusweg 1-A2516 AW The HagueThe NetherlandsWEB www.robinradar.comPHONE +31 (0)88 700 8700RobinRadar_brchr_Dronedetectie_biwrk.indd   1611-01-18   08:12